375
Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and 
Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telavancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)
Barbara E. Murray, Cesar A. Arias, and Esteban C. Nannini30 
VANCOMYCIN
• Vancomycin inhibits late stages of cell wall 
synthesis in dividing gram-positive 
microorganisms by interacting with the 
D-Ala- D-Ala termini of peptidoglycan 
precursors.
• Staphylococcus aureus  is a major target for 
vancomycin; strains with decreased susceptibility to vancomycin include vancomycin-intermediate 
S. aureus  (VISA), 
which display minimal inhibitory 
concentrations (MICs) between 4 and 8  µg/
mL, and vancomycin-resistant S. aureus  (VRSA) 
isolates harboring the enterococcal vanA  gene 
cluster with even higher MICs. The precursors of VISA, heteroresistant VISA (hVISA) strains, exhibit MICs within the susceptible range (≤
2 µg/mL).
• Vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE), 
usually Enterococcus faecium , are found 
worldwide, with the VanA and VanB phenotypes accounting for the majority of these isolates.
• In adults with normal renal function, the average 
dose is 15 to 20  mg/kg every 8 to 12 hours. For 
many infections, 15  mg/kg every 12 hours is 
adequate (obtaining trough levels ≤ 15 µg/mL). 
Even though trough levels of 15 to 20 µg/mL have been suggested for serious infections caused by methicillin-resistant 
S. aureus  (MRSA), 
the optimal vancomycin concentration for efficacy and avoidance of toxicity is still a matter of debate; a loading dose of 25 to 30 mg/kg achieves therapeutic levels sooner. The use of area under the concentration-time curve estimation for optimal vancomycin dosing may be a better parameter to follow than trough levels. Dosing should be modified in patients with renal failure, and adjustment based on blood levels is still recommended.
• Red neck or red man syndrome can be seen 
during vancomycin administration and is related to a rapid infusion and/or a large dose. The risk for vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity increases with trough levels ≥
15 µg/mL, 
concomitant use of nephrotoxic agents, and duration of therapy. Ototoxicity, vertigo, and tinnitus, as well as neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, are rarely reported.
•
 Vancomycin is still the drug of choice for 
treatment of severe skin infections and osteomyelitis and probably also for treatment of bacteremia and endocarditis caused by MRSA; many clinicians still use it as the first-line agent for MRSA pneumonia and as an alternative agent for enterococcal endocarditis and for endocarditis caused by other gram-positive bacteria. Vancomycin is used for suspected or proven penicillin-resistant pneumococcal meningitis (in combination with cefotaxime or ceftriaxone) and for cerebrospinal fluid shunt–related infections caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococci.
•
 Oral vancomycin is used for severe Clostridioides 
difficile  (formerly Clostridium difficile ) colitis.
TEICOPLANIN
• Teicoplanin is available in many countries in 
Europe, Asia, and South America but not in the United States. The spectrum of antimicrobial activity overlaps with that of vancomycin.
•
 It is administered once daily by intravenous 
(IV) bolus or by the intramuscular route. After 
an IV loading dose of 6  mg/kg every 12 hours 
for three doses, the maintenance dose follows 
with 400  mg (6  mg/kg) every 24 hours. For 
more serious infections the loading dose 
should be 800  mg (up to 12  mg/kg) every 12 
hours three times and then every 24 hours.
• Teicoplanin appears less nephrotoxic than 
vancomycin, and the most common side effects are rash and drug-related fever. The red neck syndrome is uncommon.
•
 In countries where both antibiotics are available, 
teicoplanin is infrequently used in place of vancomycin, although it could be considered for enterococcal infections or to continue the outpatient treatment of certain MRSA infections.TELAVANCIN
• Telavancin is the first commercially available 
agent among lipoglycopeptides, a group of semisynthetic derivatives of glycopeptides that is approved in the United States for acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) due to gram-positive pathogens and nosocomial pneumonia caused by susceptible 
S. aureus  when other alternatives are not 
suitable.
• Telavancin inhibits peptidoglycan synthesis as 
do glycopeptides and produces concentration-dependent alterations of the cell membrane.
•
 The in vitro spectrum of activity includes  
S. aureus,  coagulase-negative staphylococci, 
and vancomycin-susceptible Enterococcus 
faecalis  and Enterococcus faecium  strains. 
Higher concentrations are needed to suppress growth of VanA-type VRE in vitro. Telavancin seems to have good activity in vitro and in vivo against VISA strains.
•
 The approved dose is 10  mg/kg/day, which 
should be reduced to 7.5  mg/kg/day and to 
10 mg/kg every 48 hours in those with a 
creatinine clearance of 30 to 50  mL/min and 
10 to 30  mL/min, respectively.
• In the ABSSSI and the hospital-acquired 
pneumonia trials, the rate of creatinine increase was higher in patients receiving telavancin than those treated with vancomycin. Besides this reversible renal impairment, other potential side effects are infusion-related reactions, and minor increases in the QTc.
DALBAVANCIN
• Dalbavancin is approved for use in adults with 
ABSSSI caused by various susceptible gram- positive organisms in United States and Europe.
•
 Dalbavancin shows in vitro activity against all 
gram-positive pathogens except those intrinsically resistant to glycopeptides and those exhibiting high-level resistance to SHORT VIEW SUMMARY
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (T elavancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)
375.e1
Revised July 1, 2020
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.376Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
S. aureus to vancomycin (the hVISA phenotype) is discussed later. 
Vancomycin remains active against most Enterococcus faecalis  and a 
variable percent of Enterococcus faecium isolates but is not bactericidal 
even against susceptible isolates, with MBCs more than 32 times the MICs; however, as with other cell wall agents, the addition of an aminoglycoside (if the strain is not highly aminoglycoside resistant) increases the bactericidal activity. All strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae  
and Streptococcus pyogenes  are susceptible to vancomycin, as are virtually 
all Streptococcus agalactiae  and group C and group G streptococci, 
although rare isolates of streptococci (e.g., Streptococcus gallolyticus ) 
have acquired vanB  genes. Vancomycin also shows good in vitro activity 
against Granulicatella  spp. and Abiotrophia defectiva  (formerly classified 
as nutritionally variant streptococci).
Listeria monocytogenes  is susceptible to vancomycin, but strains with 
high MBCs have been reported. Vancomycin also displays good in vitro activity against 
Bacillus anthracis  isolates, Bacillus cereus,  and other 
Bacillus  spp., with MICs of 2  µg/mL or less. Against Corynebacterium  
spp., including Corynebacterium jeikeium,  vancomycin has good activity 
and is the drug of choice for serious infections caused by these organisms until susceptibilities are known. 
Rhodococcus equi  is also susceptible to 
vancomycin. The typical susceptibility to vancomycin of Lactobacillus 
acidophilus  helps differentiate this organism from other Lactobacillus  GLYCOPEPTIDES
Vancomycin
Vancomycin, the first glycopeptide antibiotic developed for clinical use, 
was isolated from Amycolatopsis orientalis  (known previously as Strep -
tomyces orientalis  and later as Nocardia orientalis ), found in a soil sample 
from Borneo in the mid-1950s. In 1958 vancomycin was introduced into clinical practice as an agent active against penicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . However, a few years later the use of vancomycin 
was relegated to patients allergic to β-lactam antibiotics because of the availability of new penicillinase-resistant β-lactams, methicillin and 
cephalothin, and the high rate of toxicity observed with the initial vancomycin formulation. Indeed, early lots of vancomycin (compound 05865) were called “Mississippi mud” owing to the color provided by their large quantity of impurities, but later manufacturing procedures markedly improved purification. Since the 1980s a steady rise in van -
comycin use has occurred in the United States, from 2000  kg/yr in 1984 
to 11,200  kg/yr in 1996,1 a trend that also occurred in most European 
countries2 and has likely contributed to the rise of strains exhibiting 
decreased glycopeptide susceptibility. Of note, an important proportion (between 40% and 70%) of the inpatient and outpatient use of vancomycin has been considered to be inappropriate.
3,4
Structure and Mechanism of Action
Vancomycin is a complex tricyclic glycopeptide that consists of a seven-membered peptide chain forming the tricyclic structure (Fig. 30.1) and an attached disaccharide composed of the amino sugar vancosamine and glucose. The molecular weight is 1485.73 dalton (Da), much higher than that of other antimicrobial agents except teicoplanin, daptomycin, and lipoglycopeptides.
The primary effect of glycopeptides is inhibition of late stages of cell 
wall synthesis in dividing bacteria. The target of glycopeptides is the nascent peptidoglycan precursor units (lipid II) as they emerge from the bacterial cytoplasm. Vancomycin and other glycopeptides form complexes with the two carboxyl-terminal d-alanine residues of peptidoglycan 
precursors, and molecular modeling studies indicate that the acyl- d-alanyl-
d-alanine moiety is held firmly by the antibiotic via five hydrogen bonds. 
Binding of the antibiotic at this step blocks the incorporation of disaccharide pentapeptide subunits into the nascent peptidoglycan by transglycosylation and also likely inhibits transpeptidation.
Antimicrobial Activity
Vancomycin has broad activity against gram-positive microorganisms. Staphylococci are normally susceptible to vancomycin, with minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) ≤
2 µg/mL and minimal bactericidal 
concentrations (MBCs) within twofold of the MIC; heteroresistance of vancomycin, mainly mediated by the vanA  
gene cluster.
• The terminal half-life is 8 to 9 days, with a 
high volume of distribution and protein 
binding of 93%.
• The current approved dosing is a single 
administration of 1500  mg or 1000  mg, 
followed by 500  mg 1 week later for adults 
with ABSSSI.
• Patients on hemodialysis can receive the 
regular dose, and those not on hemodialysis with a creatinine clearance <
30 mL/min should 
receive 1125  mg as a single dose or 750  mg 
on day 1 and 375  mg on day 8 in the 
two-dose regimen. No need for dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic insufficiency.
•
 Adverse reactions include nausea, diarrhea, 
pruritus, mild elevations of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and infusion-related reactions.
•
 A two-dose regimen of dalbavancin is 
currently under study in an open-label trial of pediatric patients with ABSSSI.
ORITAVANCIN
• Oritavancin is the third lipoglycopeptide 
available and is approved for use in adults with ABSSSI caused by susceptible gram-positive organisms in United States and Europe.
•
 Oritavancin is a derivative of the 
lipoglycopeptide chloroeremomycin, similar to vancomycin, and acts by inhibiting transglycosylation, transpeptidation, and disrupting the cell membrane.
•
 Oritavancin is active in vitro against 
staphylococci, streptococci, and enterococci, including VRE.•
 The approved dose is one infusion of 1200  mg 
over 3 hours; the drug is widely distributed, has high protein binding (85%–90%), and a prolonged terminal half-life (≈240 hours), allowing the one-time dosing strategy.
•
 Headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, 
infusions reactions such as flushing and pruritus, and mild ALT elevation were among the observed side effects.
•
 Oritavancin has a potential for drug-drug 
interaction through the inhibition of several cytochrome P450 enzymes. In addition, because oritavancin causes false elevation of activated partial thromboplastin time for up to 5 days, the use of IV unfractionated heparin sodium is contraindicated in this period.
•
 Patients with moderate liver or renal 
impairment do not require dose adjustment.
OO
O
O OO
O
OOH
H
HHO
O
OOH
OHOH HOHN
HOOCClNH2
NH2H3C
H3CHOOOOH
OH
OHCH3
CH3CH3N
HHHNHN HNHN
HNHHH
H HCl
FIG. 30.1  Chemical structure of vancomycin.  SHORT VIEW SUMMARY—cont’d
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.377Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)genome. These enterococci show variable MICs of vancomycin, with 
many falling in the susceptible range, and clinical failures have been reported after vancomycin use. In general, the isolation of these species does not require strict infection control isolation procedures, unless they are highly resistant, suggesting the added presence of potentially transferable 
vanA  or vanB  genes.
Acquired glycopeptide resistance is found most often in E. faecium,  
followed by E. faecalis  (≈80% of E. faecium  and ≈5% of E. faecalis  strains 
in the United States are vancomycin resistant), and is much less common in other enterococcal species. VanA and VanB account for the vast majority of glycopeptide resistance, with the former more frequently found. VanA isolates (and the recently described VanM) show high MICs of vancomycin and teicoplanin, whereas VanB strains often have lower vancomycin MICs and, typically, are susceptible to teicoplanin. VanD strains have moderate-level resistance to both glycopeptides, whereas VanC, VanE, VanG, VanL, and VanN isolates display low-level resistance to vancomycin and susceptibility to teicoplanin.
Expression of the 
vanA  gene cluster is regulated by a membrane-
associated sensor kinase (VanS) that likely senses changes in the cell envelope and activates the cytoplasmic response regulator (VanR), which triggers transcription of the resistance as well as the regulatory genes. Similarly, the 
vanB  gene cluster has VanS B and VanR B; the VanB sensor 
kinase (VanS B) does not appear to recognize teicoplanin.
Recent work has revealed two very distinct clades of E. faecium  that 
differ significantly in both their core and accessory genomes and appear to have diverged from each other long before the modern antimicrobial era.
8 The clade with most human clinical and outbreak strains also 
contains animal isolates and shows higher MICs of ampicillin. The community-associated clade consists primarily of non–hospital-associated human isolates with MICs of ampicillin ≤
2 µg/mL. Remarkably, hospital-
associated isolates carry not only a variety of antimicrobial-resistance genes but also more putative virulence genes, such as 
esp, ebpA  and 
hyl, encoding an adhesin, a gene involved in the synthesis of pili and 
a glycosyl hydrolase, respectively, which likely contribute to a survival advantage in the hospital environment. Some particular clonal clusters (CC2 and CC9) of 
E. faecalis  have also been reported to predominate 
in clinical specimens from hospitalized subjects.
The epidemiology and the beginning of VRE spread in Europe and 
the United States have notable differences. In Europe the glycopeptide avoparcin was frequently fed to animals as a growth enhancer, apparently selecting for vancomycin resistance in commensal strains found in the intestinal microbiota of animals. The contamination of food from animals, such as poultry products, presumably led to the VRE colonization seen in many healthy individuals from European countries. In the United States, on the other hand, glycopeptides were never approved for animal feed use, and VRE carriage was not detected (except the endogenously resistant species 
E. gallinarum  and E. casseliflavus ) outside the health 
care setting, at least early on. The widespread use of vancomycin in the hospital setting is likely one of the culprits, along with the widespread broad-spectrum cephalosporin use, for the rapid selection and prolifera -
tion of VRE within this environment. The proportion of 
E. faecium  
among enterococcal isolates from health care–associated infections is significant because this species has accounted for 25% of all enterococci, as reported by the National Healthcare Safety Network of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
9 About 80% of E. faecium  
strains are vancomycin resistant, and 90% of them are also ampicillin resistant.
In the last 1 to 2 decades, the evolution of 
E. faecium  in the European 
Union has followed the earlier trend in the United States. Namely, there has been spread of a major hospital-adapted 
E. faecium  subcluster (largely 
CC17), which typically shows higher levels of resistance to ampicillin than non-CC17 strains, with subsequent acquisition of vancomycin resistance by these ampicillin-resistant strains. Among European Union countries, the overall mean percentage of vancomycin resistance among 
E. faecium  isolates causing invasive infections showed a slight increase 
from 9% in 2013 to 11.8% in 2016 albeit with considerable variability, that is, four European countries had rates of vancomycin resistance between 5% and 10%, seven between 10% and 25%, and seven >25% 
but <50% (European Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance System, 
www.ecdc.europa.eu 2017 report).spp., which are intrinsically vancomycin resistant. 
Leuconostoc  spp., 
Pediococcus  spp., and Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae  are also intrinsically 
resistant to glycopeptides.
Among the gram-positive anaerobes, Peptostreptococcus  spp.,  
Actinomyces  spp., Propionibacterium  spp., and Finegoldia magna  are  
usually susceptible to vancomycin, as are most Clostridium  spp., including 
Clostridioides difficile  (formerly Clostridium difficile ), except strains  
of Clostridium ramosum  (MIC in 90% of isolates [MIC 90], 8 µg/mL)  
and Clostridium innocuum  (MIC 90, 16 µg/mL). Vancomycin displays  
no in vitro activity against most gram-negative organisms, except for some nongonococcal 
Neisseria  spp.
Mechanisms of Resistance
Development of resistance to vancomycin by mutations was predicted to be a rare occurrence in the clinical setting because the MIC of vancomycin against staphylococcal isolates increased only modestly after serial passages in the presence of the drug, compared with 100,000-fold when penicillin was used. Although higher MICs and MBCs of vancomycin are noted when using high inocula (10
7 colony-
forming units [CFUs]/mL) of Staphylococcus epidermidis  isolates,5 it 
was not until the mid-1980s that the first clinical isolates of S. epidermidis  
with reduced susceptibility to glycopeptides were described. Several years later vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE; MIC ≥
32 µg/mL) 
isolates were reported in Europe and subsequently the rest of the world. In 1997 the first clinical isolate of S. aureus  with diminished susceptibility 
to vancomycin (strain Mu50) was described from Japan.
6 This strain 
displayed a vancomycin MIC of 8  µg/mL, which is in the range of 
intermediate susceptibility (4–8  µg/mL) per current Clinical and Labora -
tory Standards Institute (CLSI) breakpoints7 and thus was referred to 
as vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA) or glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus (GISA). The European Committee on Antimi-
crobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) has deleted the intermediate classification for S. aureus,  and strains with MICs >
2 µg/mL are considered 
vancomycin resistant (www.eucast.org/clinical_breakpoints). The initial VISA strain report was followed by others from various countries. Precursors of these VISA isolates are isolates that harbor subpopulations of cells that are able to grow in the presence of higher concentrations of vancomycin (designated heteroresistant VISA, hVISA, or hGISA). More recently, highly vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA) strains 
with much higher MICs (ranging from 32  µg/mL–024  µg/mL7) that 
harbor the enterococcal vanA  gene cluster have been described, mostly 
from the United States, including a community-associated strain of methicillin-resistant 
S. aureus  (MRSA).
Enterococci
Among enterococci, nine types of glycopeptide resistance have been described (VanA, VanB, VanC, VanD, VanE, VanG, VanL, VanM, and VanN), which are named based on their specific ligase that catalyzes the binding of the last two amino acids or substitutes of peptidoglycan precursors (e.g., d-Ala-d-Lac or d-Ala-d-Ser ligases). Related gene clusters have been found in nonpathogenic organisms: vanF,  in Paenibacil -
lus (formerly Bacillus ) popilliae  strains (a biopesticide used in the United 
States to suppress Japanese beetle population) and vanJ  and vanK  in 
the non–glycopeptide-producing actinomycete Streptomyces coelicolor. 
The common end point for vancomycin resistance is the formation of peptidoglycan precursors with decreased affinity for glycopeptides, resulting in decreased inhibition of peptidoglycan synthesis. Peptido -
glycan precursors ending in the depsipeptide d-alanyl-d-lactate are 
produced by VanA-, VanB-, and VanD- and VanM-type strains, whereas VanC, VanE, VanL, and VanN isolates produce precursors terminating in d-alanyl-d-serine, instead of the normally occurring d-alanyl-
d-alanine. The vanA  gene cluster is often found on Tn 1546  transposon 
or related genetic elements that are usually carried on plasmids and occasionally on the host chromosome; vanA -carrying Tn1546 also has 
been found in clinical isolates of S. aureus (VRSA strains).
Glycopeptide resistance in enterococci is classified as either intrinsic 
(as a species characteristic) or acquired. The former is a characteristic of the motile species 
Enterococcus gallinarum  and Enterococcus 
casseliflavus/flavescens,  members of which all carry the naturally occurring 
vanC-1,  and vanC-2/vanC-3  genes, respectively, as part of their core 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.378Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
the d-alanyl-d-alanine–ending precursors of thickened cell walls may 
trap vancomycin molecules in outer layers of the peptidoglycan, allowing 
newly emerged peptidoglycan precursors to be used for transglycosylation and transpeptidation reactions (close to the cytoplasmic membrane).
10 
Other common phenotypic characteristics of the VISA strains include an increased cell wall turnover, decreased autolytic activity, an increased positive cell wall charge (presumably responsible also for decreased susceptibility to daptomycin), and reduced accessory gene regulator (Agr) functionality. The hVISA phenotype appears to be a precursor of VISAs and has been associated with mutations in a two-component regulatory system (TCS, designated glycopeptide-resistance–associated sensor/regulator [GraSR]) that controls several genes involved in cell wall homeostasis, including the susceptibility of 
S. aureus  to lysozyme 
and cationic antimicrobial peptides. Further sequential mutations in other TCSs have been shown to be responsible for full expression of the VISA phenotype.
One of these TCSs is vancomycin-resistance–associated sensor/
regulator (VraSR), consisting of the histidine-kinase VraS and the response regulator VraR that are involved in the regulation of transcrip-tion of genes encoding proteins and enzymes participating in cell wall turnover (designated cell wall regulon, ≈30 genes) and cell envelope 
stress response.
17 Another TCS associated with full expression of the 
VISA phenotype is WalKR (also designated YycFG; WalK is the histidine kinase, and WalR is the response regulator), which appears to contribute to decreased autolytic activity.
18,19 Mutations in these TCSs are associated 
with increased vancomycin MICs and cell wall thickness and with significant reduction in autolytic activity and biofilm formation.
19 Of 
note, alteration of some of these two-component regulatory systems is also associated with decreased susceptibility to daptomycin, suggesting a common pathway of resistance to cell envelope–acting antimicrobial agents.
The 
agr gene operon in S. aureus  encodes a global regulatory system 
that coordinates several virulence pathways. The loss of agr functionality 
(agr genotype II) predominates among VISA strains and has been linked 
to a survival advantage in the presence of vancomycin and to vancomycin treatment failure.
20–22 Because downregulation of expression of the dhl 
gene (encoding delta-hemolysin) was seen in both hVISA and VISA isolates, the delta-hemolysin assay has been proposed as a biomarker for reduced vancomycin susceptibility.
23
Laboratory detection of hVISA strains.  Heteroresistance means that 
only some of cells in a culture, sometimes as low as 1 in 100,000 bacteria, are able to grow at a higher concentration of vancomycin ( >
2 µg/mL) 
on vancomycin-containing agar. When testing these isolates at a standard inoculum (5 × 10
4 per well with broth microdilution MIC), this sub-
population of cells will not be detected, and the vancomycin MIC will fall within the susceptibility range most of the time. Therefore conven -
tional susceptibility tests would not identify heteroresistance until a much higher fraction of resistant cells is present; population analysis profile (PAP; determination of the number of surviving cells at increasing antibiotic concentrations) is required for detection. This test was later modified by calculating the area under the time-concentration curve (AUC) of the original PAP result and comparing it with the PAP of the reference hVISA strain Mu3; a PAP/AUC ratio <0.9, from 0.9 to 1.3, 
and >1.3 defines a strain as vancomycin-susceptible 
S. aureus  (VSSA), 
hVISA, and VISA, respectively.24 As mentioned earlier, this test is not 
suitable for clinical practice; thus several screening methods have been studied for routine laboratory conditions to detect these strains using a higher inoculum, prolonged incubation, or more nutritious agar. In routine laboratory conditions the “macro” Etest method (MET) may be used to identify hVISA with a fair degree of accuracy. The method uses a higher inoculum (equivalent to a 2 McFarland standard) that is streaked onto the surface of a brain-heart infusion agar to which vancomycin and teicoplanin Etest strips are applied; readings take place at 24 and 48 hours and are considered positive if vancomycin and teicoplanin MICs are ≥
8 µg/mL or the teicoplanin MIC is ≥ 12 µg/mL.25 
Another method for hVISA screening uses a double-strip Etest combining vancomycin and teicoplanin with a nutritional supplement (Etest GRD [bioMérieux, Marcy l’Étoile, France]), a Mueller-Hinton 5% blood agar with standard inoculum, and a 24- and 48-hour reading; an MIC of vancomycin or teicoplanin ≥
8 µg/mL by one of these methods for a Another phenomenon described in E. faecalis  and E. faecium  is the 
existence of strains that can only sustain growth in the presence of vancomycin, so-called vancomycin-dependent enterococci (VDE), or when supplemented with the dipeptide d-alanyl- d-alanine. VDE strains 
have an inactive d-alanine-d-alanine ligase (and thus do not produce 
d-alanyl-d -alanine) but, with vancomycin exposure, are able to synthesize 
cell wall using the d-alanine- d-lactate ligase produced from their 
vanA  
or vanB  gene cluster. When vancomycin is not present, these precursors 
are not produced and the organism cannot grow. Dependence on vancomycin has been reported after prolonged exposure and appears to be related to mutations in the gene 
ddl, leading to loss of the cell’s 
endogenous d-alanine-d-alanine ligase and loss of peptidoglycan 
synthesis. VDE strains can revert to vancomycin-independent (and resistant) growth, either by reverting the mutation in the 
ddl gene or 
by constitutively expressing their van genes, which leads to d-alanine-
d-lactase ligase activity and peptidoglycan synthesis is restored. VDE strains seem to be extremely rare and treatment involves stopping vancomycin and following closely because the isolates revert readily to a nondependent phenotype.
Staphylococcus aureus
Heteroresistant vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  
(hVISA)/VISA.  As mentioned earlier, the different phenotypes of 
decreased susceptibility in S. aureus  isolates include VISA/hVISA and 
VRSA. Because the disk diffusion method only detects strains with very high vancomycin MICs (i.e., VRSA) and fails to detect VISA isolates, MIC determinations by agar or broth dilution or by Etest (bioMérieux, Marcy l’Étoile, France) (a gradient diffusion method using antibiotic impregnated strips) are recommended for vancomycin susceptibility. In 2006, and to improve the correlation of the in vitro susceptibility assessment with clinical response, the CLSI decreased the vancomycin MIC breakpoints for 
S. aureus  to be susceptible at ≤2 µg/mL, intermediate 
at 4–8  µg/mL, and resistant at ≥16 µg/mL. It should be noted that VISA 
isolates also display decreased susceptibility to teicoplanin (MIC ≥8 µg/
mL)10 and that S. aureus  strains with decreased susceptibility to teico -
planin, while remaining susceptible to vancomycin, were reported before the emergence of VISA isolates. The combination of vancomycin plus β-lactams (e.g., nafcillin, cefazolin, and ceftaroline) showed synergistic 
activity against hVISA and VISA isolates with an in vitro infection model,
11,12 but conflicting data were found in different animal models 
using oxacillin13 and ceftobiprole.14 S. aureus  isolates exhibiting vanco -
mycin MICs within the susceptible range might still have another form of decreased susceptibility to vancomycin, a phenomenon called het-eroresistance. hVISA are considered precursors of VISA isolates having the same but less pronounced changes associated with decreased sus -
ceptibility to vancomycin. It is recognized that hVISA strains are more often encountered in clinical practice than VISA isolates. The exact prevalence of these isolates has been difficult to establish largely because the only reliable manner to detect hVISA isolates is by population analysis (see later), a technique that is too cumbersome for clinical laboratories. Geographic variability in the hVISA prevalence is seen, which may be related to clonal spread in certain institutions.
A systematic literature review of 91 published studies found an overall 
increase of hVISA and VISA strains among thousands of MRSA tested—from 4.7% and 2% before 2006 to 7% and 7.9% between 2010 and 2014, respectively.
15 In this report the prevalence of hVISA/VISA 
strains was more common in Asia than in Europe/America and in blood culture samples than from other clinical specimen; MRSA isolates within the sequence types (ST) 239 and ST5 and those carrying staphy -
lococcal cassette chromosome (SCC)
mecII and III were the most prevalent 
among VISA strains. Increasing rates of hVISA are usually seen among isolates with higher vancomycin MIC; one study found a rate of 10.5% 
in those MRSA strains with an MIC of 2  µg/mL and only 0.1% in those 
with an MIC of 1  µg/mL determined by Etest.16
Mechanisms of decreased susceptibility to vancomycin.  The exact 
mechanism and genetic basis underlying the decreased susceptibility to vancomycin of VISA isolates remains a subject of active investigation, but none of these strains carries the vancomycin-resistance genes found in enterococci. A common feature of VISA isolates appears to be the presence of a thickened cell wall; indeed, it has been postulated that 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.379Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)from enterococci to these MRSA isolates can result in replication of 
the actual enterococcal vanA  plasmid in the new staphylococcal host 
after plasmid transfer by conjugation (less common) or transposition of the Tn
1546  element to a staphylococcal plasmid with subsequent 
loss of the enterococcal plasmid.47,48 Infection control measures, with 
perhaps decreased transmissibility or fitness, appear to have controlled the spread of these isolates. VRSA strains have been reported, albeit very rarely, from other parts of the world, such as India, Iran, Portugal, Guatemala, and Brazil. Because cocolonization with MRSA and VRE strains is not a rare event and the population of 
S. aureus  that can 
acquire the vanA -containing enterococcal plasmid is very widespread, 
it is likely that reports of VRSA strains will continue in the future.
Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci
Studies in the 1980s found high MICs of teicoplanin, sometimes within the resistance range, among methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus hae -
molyticus. Overall, MICs of teicoplanin against coagulase-negative staphylococci show a wide range, occasionally higher than the CLSI resistance breakpoint (MIC ≥
32 µg/mL). For this group of organisms, 
MICs of vancomycin are generally less variable and within the susceptible range (susceptible at ≤
4 µg/mL, intermediate at 8–16  µg/mL, and resistant 
at ≥32 µg/mL by CLSI, and susceptible at ≤4 µg/mL and resistant at 
>4 µg/mL by EUCAST). Overall, reduced vancomycin susceptibility 
due to heterogeneous resistance to glycopeptides has been reported between 7% and 18% of the studied coagulase-negative staphylococci isolates, most of which were associated with glycopeptide exposure.
49 
As described with S. aureus, the mechanism for reduced glycopeptide 
susceptibility among coagulase-negative strains appears to be related to changes in cell wall homeostasis leading to thickened cell walls.
Other Gram-Positive Bacteria
Vancomycin-resistant pneumococci have not been reported, although some series have found reduced bactericidal activity of vancomycin, that is, tolerance, in up to 8.7% of isolates.
50,51 The first S. pneumoniae  
isolate showing this phenotype was isolated from a patient with meningitis and named the “Tupelo” strain. Tolerant strains appear to be more commonly resistant to other antibiotics and have been recovered as colonizers or causing invasive disease with similar frequency.
50 The 
clinical implications of this phenomenon are difficult to assess; an apparent vancomycin (with cefotaxime) therapeutic failure for pneu -
mococcal meningitis caused by a vancomycin-tolerant strain has been reported and, in a retrospective analysis, vancomycin-tolerant isolates causing meningitis were associated with worse clinical outcome.
50 The 
mechanism for tolerance is not well understood but may involve a deficiency in LytA (a cell-wall hydrolase with major autolytic function) activity or changes in the CiaRH system, which has an established lysis protection role. Exposure of S. pneumoniae  to vancomycin induces the 
transcription of a four-gene operon named ptv (phenotypic tolerance 
to vancomycin), which might act by modulating cell membrane properties.
52
Although less often associated with human disease, the genera 
Leuconostoc  and Pediococcus,  and certain Lactobacillus  spp. ( L. rhamnosus, 
L. casei,  and L. plantarum ) are intrinsically resistance to glycopeptides. 
The mechanism of resistance also involves production of peptidoglycan precursors that terminate in d-alanyl-d-lactate. The d-alanyl-d-lactate 
ligase of these organisms, however, is only remotely related to the VanA or VanB ligase found in VRE strains. Another gram-positive organism, 
E. rhusiopathiae,  is also typically vancomycin resistant.
Clinical Pharmacodynamics  
and Pharmacokinetics
A considerable number of studies have found that the bactericidal activity of vancomycin is concentration independent once a concentration of four to five times the MIC for the organism is reached. Finding the pharmacodynamic parameter able to predict vancomycin treatment success has not been straightforward,
53 but it seems that the 24-hour 
AUC/MIC ratio is the best predictor of efficacy in clinical studies.54,55 
For example, in patients with MRSA pneumonia, higher rates of clinical success and more rapid bacterial eradication were associated with achievement of an AUC
24/MIC ratio ≥400.55 Of note, no relationship strain that tested as susceptible for standard methods defines an hVISA strain.
26 Both the MET and Etest GRD methods may be used to identify 
hVISA strains with a fair degree of accuracy, although some differences in sensitivity and specificity with the population analysis exist.
25,27 The 
vancomycin and teicoplanin MIC determined by broth macrodilution method (10
5 CFU in 1  mL) or agar tes ting when read at 48 hours could 
detect a significantly higher number of strains classified as hVISA and VISA than the standard microdilution method; the higher number of bacteria used in the broth macrodilution method likely explains these findings.
28 Several other screening tests have been developed with variable 
sensitivity, but the potential clinical impact in the management of patients with deep-seated 
S. aureus  infections is unclear.
Clinical impact of strains with increased vancomycin minimal 
inhibitory concentration.  Several studies have reported a rise in the 
vancomycin MICs over time, a phenomenon also known as vancomycin “MIC creep, ” although the use of this terminology is still controversial. The increase in vancomycin MICs might be explained by replacement of local MRSA clones with strains with higher vancomycin MICs rather than by a vancomycin “creep” per se within an MRSA clone.
29 In fact, 
this vancomycin MIC creep phenomenon can be seen in centers where vancomycin is frequently prescribed and/or in the setting of a specific clone predominance with high vancomycin MIC; however, there does not appear to be increased resistance overall in 
S. aureus  around the 
world.
There is evidence that VISA isolates (MICs, 4–8  µg/mL) are associated 
with therapeutic failure. In addition, poorer clinical outcomes have been associated with hVISA isolates compared with non-hVISA isolates among patients treated with vancomycin in many but not in all clinical studies. A decrease in the virulence properties of hVISA isolates has been suggested by some studies that reported lower rates of invasive infections and diminished risk for septic shock compared with VSSA strains.
30,31
It is also important to note that a poor response to vancomycin has 
been documented in an experimental endocarditis model using hVISA strains and that decreased in vitro killing by vancomycin (likely to be seen with hVISA isolates) has been significantly associated with worse clinical outcome,
32,33 although time-kill experiments cannot be performed 
by most laboratories.
Several initial retrospective32–35 and prospective36,37 studies and 
meta-analysis38 have reported unsatisfactory response to vancomycin 
in the treatment of invasive MRSA infections, including bacteremia caused by strains with vancomycin MICs >
1.5 µg/mL. However, another 
meta-analysis39 and some recent prospective studies40,41 have failed to 
confirm such association. Part of the dilemma likely arises from the inherent variability in the results of MIC testing, with the CLSI criteria considering a result accurate to ± one twofold dilution. Moreover, 
vancomycin MICs measured by Etest and by some automated methods are generally one-half to one dilution higher and one to two dilutions lower than the gold standard broth microdilution method, respectively.
42 
Thus the exact meaning of a high vancomycin MIC (but within the susceptible range) among invasive 
S. aureus  isolates is still a matter of 
debate. Current Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) practice guidelines for the treatment of MRSA infections suggest that, for strains with vancomycin MIC ≤
2 µg/mL, a decision to continue vancomycin 
treatment should depend more on clinical response than on the MIC value.
43
Vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.  Another mechanism 
of decreased susceptibility to vancomycin defined as “true” vancomycin resistance (MIC >
16 µg/mL) was reported in 2002, primarily in the 
United States (mainly in the state of Michigan) with 14 VRSA clinical isolates reported to date.
44,45 These isolates display a median vancomycin 
MIC of 512  µg/mL, with a range of 32 to 1024  µg/mL. Most patients 
from whom VRSA were isolated had chronic underlying diseases, prior or current MRSA and VRE colonization or infection, and extensive exposure to vancomycin. All the strains had acquired the enterococcal 
vanA  gene, and most of them belonged to the MRSA lineage USA100 
containing SCC mec type II within clonal cluster 5.44 However, a 
community-associated ST8 strain of VRSA was reported in Brazil,46 
with acquisition of the vanA  gene cluster also by methicillin-susceptible 
S. aureus  (MSSA) .47 Molecular studies of the transfer of the vanA  cluster 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.380Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
level >15 µg/mL may not be necessary for MRSA strains with an MIC 
of 0.5  µg/mL.63 On the other hand, and as previously shown64 for strains 
with vancomycin MICs of 2  µg/mL, the probability of achieving the 
target AUC/MIC ratio is 57% and 15% for vancomycin dosing of 2  g 
and 1  g every 12 hours, respectively,63 implying that many of these 
patients would be given vancomycin doses ≥4 g/day to achieve the 
AUC/MIC target for severe MRSA infections.
Analyzing the pharmacodynamic AUC 24/MIC parameter for van-
comycin efficacy in infections caused by enterococci, a retrospective 
single-center study found that among 57 patients with enterococcal bacteremia (32 
E. faecium , 21 E. faecalis , and 4 other enterococci) treated 
with vancomycin, the 30-day mortality rate was significantly lower in those with an AUC/MIC ratio (MIC measured by Etest) ≥389.
65
Of interest, a recent retrospective study showed that S. aureus  isolates 
tolerant to vancomycin (defined as an MBC/MIC ratio ≥32 by broth 
microdilution) were significantly associated with vancomycin failure in patients with 
S. aureus  bacteremia. This association was even main -
tained in patients with MSSA bacteremia treated with β-lactams, 
suggesting some fundamental difference in the organisms’ response to these antibiotics.
66
Besides the management of serious staphylococcal infections, other 
special circumstances where it seems prudent to measure vancomycin concentrations include, for the most part, patients concomitantly receiv -
ing another nephrotoxic agent, especially aminoglycosides; patients receiving high-dose vancomycin (e.g., very obese patients); those with rapidly changing renal function; and subjects undergoing hemodialysis, especially if high-flux membranes are used. Other situations include the measurement of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels in patients receiving vancomycin for central nervous system (CNS) infection, whether by intrathecal, intraventricular, or intravenous (IV) routes (see later); vancomycin administration in neonates; and in extremely ill patients or in the presence of possible therapeutic failure, to ensure adequate drug  
presence.
The in vitro postantibiotic effect of vancomycin against staphylococci 
and enterococci has been described mostly as of short duration. As with β-lactams (i.e., nafcillin), the in vitro bactericidal activity of 
vancomycin is reduced when a high inoculum of 
S. aureus  is used. The 
activity of vancomycin is affected, at least to some degree, by the presence of biofilm, which is often seen in the setting of medical device–related infection.
A study comparing innovator vancomycin product with vancomycin 
generics raised concern that generic vancomycin was less potent, possibly due to higher amounts of crystalline degradation products (CDP-1).
67 
However, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) laboratories tested six commercially available vancomycin generic products and found minimal amounts of CDP-1,
68 and no statistically significant 
differences were observed between these product and the innovator molecule in an endocarditis animal model.
69
Distribution
Vancomycin pharmacokinetics in adults is best described by a two- or 
three-compartment model. After a single IV dose of 0.5  g and 1  g in 
normal volunteers, vancomycin concentrations achieved in serum at 2 
hours are about 10  µg/mL and 25  µg/mL, respectively, which decrease 
to 2 µg/mL by 6 to 8 hours after 0.5  g and by 12 ho urs after 1  g.70 The 
drug shows a short distribution phase of about 7 minutes and then an intermediate phase of serum decline (half-life of 30–90 minutes). This is followed by a highly variable elimination phase of 3 to 11 hours (averaging 6 hours) in subjects with normal renal function; in this phase the vancomycin concentration is inversely affected by the creatinine clearance. The volume of distribution of vancomycin at steady state 
ranges from 390 to 970  mL/kg in studies incl uding adults, children, 
and infants; and the percentage protein binding in serum varies between 30% and 55%.
Trough vancomycin serum level should be obtained at steady state, 
usually before the fourth dose, although steady state may occur earlier if a loading dose is used. When obtaining a trough vancomycin level, it is important to collect the sample within 30 minutes before administra -
tion because drawing too early is a common cause of elevated vancomycin levels, which can lead to inappropriate dosing change.between percentage of time higher than the MIC and response was found in this study.
55
For the correct interpretation of the data related to studies addressing 
the pharmacodynamics of vancomycin, the following considerations should be taken into account: (1) Because vancomycin susceptibility is determined by methods that significantly differ from the standard broth microdilution method (e.g., vancomycin MICs by Etest are onefold or 0.5–1.5 log
2 dilution higher than broth microdilution MICs, whereas 
automated methods such as Sensititre [Thermo Scientific/TREK Diagnostic Systems; Oakwood, OH] and Vitek-2 [BioMérieux, Durham, NC], tend to underestimate the MICs value), small variations in the MIC will represent significant changes in the AUC/MIC ratio; (2) trough level is used as a surrogate marker for AUC because the latter is not calculated in clinical practice; (3) in patients with serious infections, especially those caused by MRSA, vancomycin levels may be used to modify the dose to attain the target serum level; (4) maximal optimization of the vancomycin dosing does not seem to be required for less serious MRSA infections, such as most acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI), for which dosing based on renal function and actual patient weight is likely to be adequate; (5) measurement of the peak value is not recommended; and (6) low trough vancomycin levels (<
10 µg/mL) have been associated with development of hVISA 
isolates.
For serious infections caused by MRSA, such as endocarditis, 
bacteremia, arthritis, osteomyelitis, meningitis, pneumonia, and severe ABSSSI, the consensus from the IDSA, the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, and the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists published in 2009 recommends trough vancomycin concentration 
between 15 and 20  µg/mL.56 In those receiving vancomycin as a continu -
ous infusion, the recommended target plateau concentration has been 
20 to 25  µg/mL. The range of recommended trough serum levels between 
15 and 20  µg/mL has been correlated with a 24-hour AUC (±standard 
deviation) of 418 ±152,46 which will achieve a vancomycin AUC/MIC 
ratio ≥400 if the MIC of the infecting strain is ≤1 µg/mL. To attain 
these levels, the vancomycin dose is usually 15 to 20  mg/kg every 8 t o 
12 hours based on actual body weight in patients with normal renal function. Indeed, a recent prospective study found that dosing vanco -
mycin based on AUC estimation rather than on trough concentration was associated with lower rates of nephrotoxicity, shorter duration of therapy, and lower overall vancomycin exposure.
57
The need to target an AUC/MIC ratio ≥400 was initially based on 
clinical studies in patients with MRSA lower respiratory tract infections reporting higher rates of clinical success and more rapid bacterial eradication in those patients with achievement of an AUC/MIC ratio ≥400, where vancomycin MICs were determined by broth microdilution.
55 
In a single-center and retrospective study of 320 patients with MRSA bacteremia treated with vancomycin, the group of patients that did not reach an AUC/MIC ratio of at least 421 was associated with a significantly higher failure rate than those that did achieve this cutoff (61% vs. 49%, 
P = .038) (MIC measured by broth microdilution).58 More recently, a 
group of researchers reported a retrospective and then a prospective study of patients with MRSA bacteremia treated with vancomycin, demonstrating a significant association between a low AUC/MIC ratio and treatment failure; in both studies and for broth microdilution and E-tests susceptibility tests, the AUC/MIC cut-off values were between 392 and 430.
59,60 In accordance, a systemic review of published studies, 
including 916 patients with different types of MRSA infections, found that a high AUC/MIC ratio was significantly associated with lower clinical failure and mortality; the authors proposed an AUC/MIC ratio of 400 as a reasonable target (MIC measured by either broth microdilution or by E-test).
61
Even though vancomycin AUC is not measured in clinical practice, 
it can be estimated with the use of several computer programs having patient information such as the trough vancomycin level at steady state, the estimated volume of distribution, and renal function, among others. It has been shown that a significant proportion of patients can achieve an AUC/MIC ratio ≥400 with a trough concentration <
15 µg/mL; 
therefore the target of at least 15  µg/mL may overexpose patients to 
vancomycin and its related nephrotoxicity risk.62 In this regard, a Monte 
Carlo simulation model suggested that targeting a vancomycin trough 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.381Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)delayed and low concentration of vancomycin in bone was found, with 
lower levels in the cortical than in the cancellous bone, with a time to 
reach 2  µg/mL of 110 and 27 minutes, respectively.80 Nonetheless, it has 
been difficult to find a correlation between antibiotic bone concentrations and clinical outcome.
Transplacental passage of vancomycin during the second trimester 
of pregnancy and at time of delivery has been documented, and the concentration of vancomycin in breast milk 4 hours after IV infusion 
was 12.7  µg/mL. This could lead to a potential infant oral dose of 1.9  mg/
kg/day.
Excretion
Vancomycin is primarily excreted unchanged via the kidneys by glo-merular filtration, with no direct evidence of tubular secretion or resorption.
71 A linear correlation between creatinine clearance and 
vancomycin levels was recognized early on in patients with varying degrees of renal dysfunction. Some investigators report a lower rate of vancomycin clearance in patients with hepatic dysfunction, and variable levels of vancomycin have been found in stool samples of patients on IV vancomycin only after 5 days of therapy, although vancomycin does not appear to have enterohepatic circulation. However, nonrenal clearance does not appear to account for >5% of the total drug clearance, and 
therefore dose adjustment in patients with hepatic dysfunction alone is unlikely to be necessary.
Administration
Vancomycin is given intravenously for the treatment of systemic infections caused by susceptible organisms. In certain circumstances vancomycin can be administered through oral, intraperitoneal, intrathecal or intraventricular, and intraocular routes, but intramuscular injection is not recommended because it causes severe local pain. Vancomycin is poorly absorbed when administered orally, yielding high fecal concentra -
tions (1406 ±
 1164  µg/g of feces) using doses of 125  mg every 6 h ours; 
in the presence of diffuse colonic inflammation and renal insufficiency, detectable levels of vancomycin may be obtained in serum, but monitoring drug levels does not seem necessary.
For IV administration, vancomycin is generally diluted in 100 to 
250 mL of 5% dextrose or 0.9% saline solution with a concentration 
≤5 mg/mL and infused at a rate not exceeding 15  mg/min (i.e., 0.5  g 
and 1  g over 30 and 60 minutes, respectively) to minimize the occurrence 
of infusion-related toxicities. Antihistamines may be used to reduce the incidence of red man (or red neck) syndrome, characterized by an acute onset of an erythematous rash affecting the upper trunk and neck during or at the end of an infusion, which, when seen, is usually associated with rapid infusion or a high vancomycin dose. The usual recommended 
IV dose in adults with normal renal function is 30  mg/kg/day div ided 
into two or four doses (typically, 500  mg ever y 6 hours or 1  g every 12 
hours). Based on pharmacodynamics studies, the need for higher trough 
levels (between 15 and 20  µg/mL) in the setting of severe MRSA infections 
has been reflected in a dosing recommendation of 15 to 20  mg/kg every  
8 to 12 hours; this dose should be based on actual body weight, not 
exceeding 2  g per dose (Ta ble 30.1). Continuous infusion at a dose of 
30 mg/kg/day after a loading dose of 15  mg/kg also h as also been used. 
This mode of administration appeared to be associated with lower rates of nephrotoxicity but not with increased efficacy
81; prospective random -
ized studies are needed.
A few studies have evaluated the use of a loading dose of 25 to 
30 mg/kg (at an infusion rate of 500  mg/h) or of 2  g, part icularly in 
suspected severe MRSA disease, such as endocarditis, meningitis, pneumonia, or sepsis, to achieve higher trough concentrations earlier in therapy,
82,83 which has been associated with better initial outcome.34,64 
Prospective studies to address this therapeutic issue would be needed to make firmer recommendation on clinical criteria but is a logical pharmacologic approach.
Because obese patients were found to have increased volumes of 
distribution, higher renal clearance, and probably lower levels of free vancomycin in serum,
84 these individuals should receive vancomycin 
based on their actual total body weight instead of their ideal weight. To avoid very high peak values, a more frequent dosing schedule should be considered, and serum concentration should be obtained routinely Penetration of vancomycin into the CSF is minimal in the absence 
of meningeal inflammation,
71 which usually results in higher vancomycin 
passage into the CSF in patients with meningitis than in those with ventriculitis. In adults with ventriculitis CSF penetration ranges from 5% to 10% after IV administration, probably resulting in subtherapeutic levels; for this reason, it is important to send CSF for determination of vancomycin levels when using it to treat CSF infections. In children with meningitis the vancomycin concentration in CSF has ranged from 14% to 28% (mean, 21%) of that in serum after a vancomycin dose of 
60 mg/kg/day in conjunction with dexamethasone; this concentration 
is considered adequate and predictable. Dexamethasone, through reduction of meningeal inflammation, may decrease vancomycin CSF penetration, which was associated with delayed CSF sterilization in experimental meningitis, although with higher doses, therapeutic CSF levels were achieved. Low vancomycin CSF levels have been associated with clinical failures in adults with pneumococcal meningitis, although it has been difficult to establish a clear correlation between vancomycin CSF concentration and cure.
72 To overcome the relatively poor vanco -
mycin CSF penetration, high-dose vancomycin administered in continu -
ous infusion (50–60  mg/kg/day aft er a loading dose of 15  mg/kg) has 
been evaluated in adults with meningitis, resulting in a CSF penetration rate of a mean of 30%
73 to 48%.74
Animal studies have documented high concentrations of vancomycin 
in kidney, liver, and spleen of rats, but data on concentrations in the equivalent human organs are limited. A relatively good concentration was found in kidney, liver, aorta, lung, heart tissue, and in abscess fluid in a patient after several vancomycin doses, and the concentration of vancomycin in soft tissue appears to be lower in diabetic than nondiabetic patients. Vancomycin concentrations are generally adequate to treat susceptible organisms in fluids from the pericardial, ascitic, pleural, and synovial fluids/spaces.
71 Concentrations in heart valve, subcutaneous 
tissue, and muscle were found to be 52%, 29%, and 27% of the con -
comitant serum level, respectively, 6 hours after a single vancomycin dose.
75 In patients undergoing vascular surgery receiving continuous 
vancomycin infusion after a loading dose, serum/tissue concentration ratios of 0.22 and 0.50 for fat and vessel wall, respectively, were reported.
76 
These results appear to support adequate vancomycin penetration into vascular tissue but probably not into fat, at least with the mentioned dosing. Heterogeneous diffusion of vancomycin into vegetations has been demonstrated in experimental endocarditis models.
Studies addressing vancomycin concentrations in lung tissue found 
significant variability, depending mainly on the sample used and the presence or not of inflamed lung tissue. Moreover, indirect measurements of vancomycin concentrations have been used for distal airways and alveoli. Twenty percent to 30% of the serum concentration has been reported in lung tissue. Others have reported its penetration into the epithelial lining fluid as approximately 16% that of concomitant van -
comycin serum levels. In another study vancomycin serum trough levels >
20 µg/mL were required to have detectable concentration in the 
epithelial lining fluid in patients with MRSA pneumonia. In contrast, the vancomycin epithelial lining fluid concentrations were 50% of those obtained in serum in 10 healthy volunteers after a 1-g infusion; however, a high degree of variability was found among the pharmacokinetic results.
77 Patients with higher concentrations of albumin in the bron -
choalveolar lavage had higher concentrations of vancomycin, probably linked to inflammation.
Although vancomycin appears to penetrate into bile, it is not concen -
trated there. Vancomycin, like many other antimicrobial agents, penetrates very poorly into the aqueous humor of the eye. Human studies evaluating the concentration of vancomycin in infected and uninfected bone have reported highly variable results. A mean concentration of vancomycin in 
the sternum of 10.4  µg/g 60 minutes after administration of 15  mg/kg has 
been documented in subjects undergoing cardiac surgery.78 In another 
study the penetration of vancomycin appeared to be satisfactory and suboptimal into the cancellous and the cortical bone, respectively.
79 Of 
note, this study also reported higher vancomycin bone concentrations in association with increased local inflammatory markers, likely secondary to bone inflammatory conditions. More recently, adults undergoing total knee replacement receiving vancomycin as prophylaxis were evaluated, with solid tissue concentrations measured by microdialysis chips; a 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.382Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
goal, the median daily dose was 30  mg/kg.90 It is also recommended to 
closely monitor serum concentrations of vancomycin in these patients.
After intraperitoneal administration of vancomycin in patients on 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), the concentrations 
of vancomycin were still 7 ± 1.2 µg/mL and 3.6 ± 1.1 µg/mL for serum 
and dialysate, respectively, 7 days after the intraperitoneal administration 
of 30  mg/kg (in 2  L of dialys ate, with 6 hours’ retention/settling).91 An 
intermittent dosing schedule (one exchange daily) targeting a serum trough level >
15 µg/mL has been recommended using a intraperitoneal 
vancomycin dose of 15 to 30  mg/kg in long dw ell (at least 6 hours) 
every 5 to 7 days (patients on automated peritoneal dialysis may require additional doses); the dosing interval will depend on patients’ residual renal function and peritoneum permeability.
92 A continuous (in each 
dialysate exchange) dosing regimen (loading dose of 30  mg/kg, fol lowed 
by a maintenance dose of 1.5  mg/kg/bag), ha s also proven to be efficacious 
in this setting.92 Conversely, the peritoneal dialysate concentration of 
vancomycin after IV administration alone does not reliably provide adequate levels to treat peritonitis caused by susceptible organisms.
71 
The pharmacokinetics of vancomycin in children undergoing CAPD appear to be similar to those described in adults.
Because of concern that CSF levels of vancomycin are inadequate 
to treat ventriculitis (which can be assessed by sending CSF fluid for level determination), even with active infection, intrathecal or intra -
ventricular administration of vancomycin should be considered, par -
ticularly when vancomycin is used as monotherapy. The recommended initial intraventricular dose for the treatment of ventriculitis or shunt-
related infections is 5  mg, 10  mg, an d 15 to 20  mg in pa tients with slit, 
normal-sized, and enlarged ventricles, respectively.93,94 Immuno-
compromised patients and those with difficult-to-treat infections might 
benefit from using the higher dosage of 20  mg/day. C onsidering the 
CSF volume in infants, the intraventricular dose should be reduced by about 60% in this population. The recommended dosing frequency of vancomycin depends on the CSF drainage volume; with daily CSF volume drainage of >
100 mL, between 50  mL and 100  mL, and <50 mL, the 
doses should be given every 24, 48, and 72 hours, respectively. Neverthe -
less, further adjustments based on the CSF levels should be made because of unpredictable kinetics of this drug in the CSF . The recommended optimal vancomycin trough concentration (24 hours after last when high doses are used. Significantly higher vancomycin clearance has been shown in burn patients, suggesting also the need for higher and more frequent doses and monitoring of serum levels in this group of patients. Even though a significant decrease of serum vancomycin levels during cardiopulmonary bypass has been documented, concentra -
tions were maintained within the therapeutic range after a 15-mg/kg dose of this drug administered intravenously 1 hour before skin incision. No dosage adjustment appears to be necessary during pregnancy.
The dose of IV vancomycin for children with non-CNS infections 
should be 10  mg/kg  every 6 hours, and, for infections involving the CNS 
and other serious infections, it should be 15  mg/kg every 6 h ours.85 In 
children age 1 month to 12 years with normal renal function, an increase 
in the prescribing dose from 45  mg/kg/day div ided every 8 hours to 60  mg/
kg/day divided every 6 hours was correlated with higher initial trough levels. This decreased the percentage of patients with trough levels <
5 µg/
mL from 38% to 17%.86 However, a retrospective study found that about 
60% of children (median age, 6 years) receiving empirical treatment with vancomycin attained subtherapeutic level ( <
15 µg/mL) even when high 
doses such as 20  mg/kg every 6 to 8 hours were used, probably secondary 
to increased creatinine clearance in this population. In particular, age younger than 12 years was significantly associated with initial low trough levels (<
10 µg/mL) compared with those older than 12 years, even after 
adjustment for creatinine clearance.87
Neonates and young infants appear to have a lower vancomycin 
clearance rate. For neonates younger than 1 week, the recommended 
dose is 15  mg/kg every 12 h ours; and for those between age 1 week 
and 30 days, it is 15  mg/kg every 8 hours.85
In premature infants longer intervals may be required because the 
clearance of vancomycin correlates with postconceptional age.88 The classic 
dosing schedule in premature neonates has been to dose vancomycin 
15 mg/kg every 12 or 18 hours, and every 8 or 12 hours when the post -
conceptional age is 29 weeks or younger and 30 to 44 weeks, respectively. However, because this dosing guideline aimed for a trough concentration 
between 5 and 10  µg/mL, and in one study 30% of neonates had serum 
concentrations <5 µg/mL, higher doses have been suggested.89 The percent -
age of neonates (average gestational age, 28.2 weeks) achieving a trough 
of 10 to 20  µg/mL has been only 25% after empirical vancomycin treatment 
in the intensive care unit (ICU); among those who achieved the therapeutic TABLE 30.1  Route of Administration, Recommended Dosages, and Infusions of Vancomycin, Teicoplanin, 
Telavancin, Dalbavancin, and Oritavancin
DRUGROUTE OF 
ADMINISTRATIONRECOMMENDED DOSAGE (ADULTS) INFUSION COMMENTS
Vancomycin Intravenous The average dose is 15–20  mg/kg 
q8–12h.
If continuous infusion is 
indicated, the daily dose is 
30 mg/kg after a loading dose 
of 15  mg/kg.Should use a concentration of 
≤5 mg/mL and a rate of 
<15 mg/min (i.e., 1  g over 
60 min)For many infections, 15  mg/kg q12h 
is adequate. For severe MRSA 
infections, a loading dose (see text) should be considered and, although still debated, current recommendations for monitoring include a trough between 
15–20  µg/mL or an AUC/MIC ratio 
of ≥400.
Oral 125–500  mg q6h Severe Clostridioides difficile (formerly 
Clostridium difficile) colitis
Teicoplanin Intravenous or intramuscular Loading dose: 400  mg (6  mg/kg) 
q12h for 3 doses
Maintenance:  400 mg q24hCan be administered in bolus For serious infections: 800  mg (up to 
12 mg/kg) q12h for 3 times and 
then q24h
Oral 100–400  mg q12h Severe C. difficile colitis
Telavancin Intravenous 10 mg/kg/day 1-hour infusion Supplied as a 25-mg or 750-mg vial 
to be reconstituted with 15 mL and 45 mL, respectively, for a concentration of about 15 mg/mL
Dalbavancin Intravenous Twice-weekly regimen: 1000 mg 
then 500 mg 1 week later.
One-time dosing: 1500 mg30-min infusion Supplied in 500-mg vials to be 
diluted in 5% dextrose for a final concentration of 1–5 mg/mL
Oritavancin Intravenous 1200-mg single dose 3 hours Supplied in 400-mg vials to be 
diluted (only in 5% dextrose) to a concentration of 1.2 mg/mL
AUC/MIC, Area under the curve/minimal inhibitory concentration; MRSA, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.383Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). Clearance of vancomycin 
in patients with acute renal failure undergoing CRRT, such as continuous venovenous hemofiltration (CVVH) or continuous venovenous hemo -
dialysis (CVVHD), is significantly increased. This clearance depends on operational factors, such as the ultrafiltration flow rate and the type of hemofilter. Based on the study of 24 critically ill patients undergoing CVVHD and posterior Monte Carlo simulation, the recommended initial dosing regimen of vancomycin for a target attainment between 
15 and 20  µg/mL was 15  mg/kg every 24 h ours, after the loading 
dose.102,103 However, attainment of desired target concentrations was 
low, suggesting the importance of therapeutic drug monitoring for further adequacy of vancomycin dosing. Because about 20% of the vancomycin dose is removed during a 12-hour period of CVVH, the 
recommended maintenance dose of vancomycin is 500 to 750  mg every  
12 hours, targeting a steady-state trough concentration of 15 to 20  µg/
mL.104 More recently, vancomycin, in continuous infusion administered 
based on a nomogram that included the CVVH intensity, achieved 
therapeutic levels (15–25  µg/mL) in >80% of 52 critically ill adults.105 
Drug removal appears to be higher when continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration (CVVHDF) ( ≈
50%) is used, requiring doses of 750  mg 
every 12 hours, although drug accumulation has been described. Measurements of vancomycin levels are generally needed for patients on any form of CRRT.
Adverse Reactions
One of the first reports of the clinical use of vancomycin included six patients who developed severe ototoxicity.
106 Most of them were receiving 
1 to 2  g of vancomycin per day despite renal insufficiency; when 
vancomycin levels were measured, values between 80 and 100  µg/mL 
were observed.106 After 50 years of clinical use of vancomycin, with 
more purified material and because of the relatively few cases of confirmed vancomycin-related ototoxicity reported and existing data from animal studies showing no evidence of vancomycin-induced hearing damage, many authors concluded that vancomycin-related ototoxicity was a rare reaction. However, a retrospective study evaluating patients receiving 
higher doses of vancomycin (mean trough level, 19  µg/mL) reported 
an overall occurrence of worsening audiogram of 12%, a rate that was higher in subjects older than 53 years.
107 When ototoxicity develops, it 
generally appears to be reversible after drug discontinuation. Vertigo and tinnitus are also rarely reported during vancomycin therapy and may precede hearing loss. Prospective studies addressing the true rate of vancomycin-related ototoxicity in the era of higher vancomycin target serum levels are needed.
Nephrotoxicity associated with vancomycin has been reported since 
the beginning of its clinical use, thought to be related, at least in part, to impurities in the early preparations. This nephrotoxicity is usually 
defined as an increase in serum creatinine concentration of 0.5  mg/dL 
or a ≥50% increase from the baseline serum creatinine level. The mechanism underlying vancomycin-related nephrotoxicity appears to be related to its oxidative effects on cells of the proximal renal tubule, leading to renal tubular ischemia.
108 Vancomycin, in an animal model, 
appeared to induce apoptosis in proximal tubular cells via mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species with peroxidation of the mito -
chondrial phospholipid cardiolipin.
109
Initial studies noted renal toxicity in animals when high doses of 
vancomycin were administered. However, and despite its prior reputation as a nephrotoxic agent, vancomycin use alone has been associated with a relatively low rate of renal dysfunction in clinical studies that avoided the inclusion of confounding factors. Most prospectively designed studies report an incidence of renal function impairment between 0% and 12%, which appeared associated with vancomycin trough levels ≥
15 µg/mL,34 
concomitant use of nephrotoxic agents, and duration of vancomycin therapy.
34,110 A more recent meta-analysis found that vancomycin troughs 
concentrations >15 µg/mL and treatment duration more than 7 days 
were associated with nephrotoxicity (odds ratio, 2.67; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.95-3.65).
111 Most of these studies found a relationship 
between trough levels and renal toxicity, with rates usually between 
15% and 30% when trough levels were 15 to 20  µg/mL.112 A prospective 
multicenter study conducted between 2008 and 2010 found nephrotoxicity rates of 29.6% and 8.9% in patients with vancomycin serum trough administration) should be high enough to exceed about 10 to 20 times the microorganism MIC, usually representing target concentrations 
between 10 and 20  µg/mL95 However, it has been difficult to clearly 
find a correlation between levels, toxicity, and efficacy with the usual 
ventricular dosage of 5 to 20  mg/day72 For administration of vancomycin 
into the CSF , the drug may be diluted in sterile 0.9% saline solution to 
a volume of 1 to 10  mL, at a concent ration of 2.5, 5, or 10  mg/mL 
solution, depending on the dose.94
The use of IV vancomycin in patients with postoperative end -
ophthalmitis results in subtherapeutic concentrations in the vitreous. 
However, after intraocular administration of 1  mg of vanco mycin, vitreous 
concentrations are in the therapeutic range for at least 3 days.
Vancomycin for oral administration is formulated in capsules and 
oral solution and can be given by mouth or, as needed in case of ileus or toxic megacolon, by nasogastric tube and even via rectal tube (intracolonic administration) or ileostomy. The recommended oral dose 
for pseudomembranous colitis in adults ranges from 125  mg to 500  mg 
every 6 hours, depending on the severity of the colitis. In children the 
usual dose is 40  mg/kg/day (no t exceeding 2  g/day) divide d in three 
or four doses. For intracolonic administration, 500  mg of vanco mycin 
dissolved in 1 to 2  L of 0.9% saline s olution has been infused as a 
retention enema several times (two to six) a day.
Dosing in Renal Insufficiency
Dosing nomograms have been developed to reflect the more recent recommendation of targeting higher vancomycin trough concentration 
(between 15 and 20  µg/mL) for severe staphylococcal infections.43,56 
Despite the bedside calculation of the vancomycin dosing, individualized drug monitoring based on a patient’s serum levels is required owing to the relatively high interindividual variability in patients with any degree of renal failure.
The recommended daily dose for patients with renal failure not on 
hemodialysis with a creatinine clearance between 60 to 89  mL/min, 30 
and 59  mL/min, and 15 and 29  mL/min are 20 to 30  mg/kg, 10 to 
20 mg/kg, and 7 to 10  mg/kg respe ctively. For those with <15 mL/min, 
the dose should be 10  mg/kg every 48 hours.96
The prediction of vancomycin pharmacokinetics in patients undergo -
ing hemodialysis is difficult; actual body weight, timing of vancomycin administration, residual kidney function, and type of dialysis membranes are among the variables that affect this prediction.
97 The use of a loading 
dose of 20 to 25  mg/kg, fol lowed by a fixed 500-mg dose during or 
after high-flux dialysis membranes, has been a commonly used dosing regimen.
98 However, only 28% of the patients were within the target 
trough vancomycin range of 15 to 20  µg/mL using this dosage. Another 
dosing schedule for patients on dialysis included a loading dose of 
20 mg/kg, followed by 1  g of maint enance during the last hour of dialysis, 
which obtained a good mean trough of 19 ± 6.6 µg/mL, but 38% of the 
patients had levels > 20 µg/mL.99 More recently, also including patients 
on high-flux hemodialysis and using a Monte Carlo simulation method, a new protocol for vancomycin dosing was developed, considering a subject’s weight: a 1-g loading dose, 500-mg maintenance (given during the last hour of each dialysis session) dose for patients weighing <
70 kg; 
1.25 g, followed by 750  mg for th ose weighing 70 to 100  kg; and 1.5  g, 
followed by 1  g for thos e weighing >100 kg; this dosing regimen was 
prospectively validated to achieve therapeutic serum troughs, with a mean of 17.3 ±
 4.0 mg/L, and almost 90% of the maintenance troughs 
between 10 and 22  µg/mL.100 The older low-flow membranes have lower 
ultrafiltration coefficients than high-flux membranes; after a loading 
dose (15–20  mg/kg), the dose t o attain the vancomycin serum target 
is 15  mg/kg every 3 to 5 days and 7  mg/kg in the la st hour of each 
hemodialysis session with low-flow cellulose acetate and polysulfone membranes, respectively.
101 In addition, trough levels before each dialysis 
session should be obtained to guide therapy.97 Because CAPD can decrease 
the elimination half-life of vancomycin, a modest increase in the IV dose appears necessary in these patients.
It should also be considered that the administration of vancomycin 
during the last hour of dialysis renders lower serum levels than when administered after dialysis.
The pharmacokinetics of vancomycin in patients managed with 
intermittent hemodialysis is significantly different from those receiving 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.384Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
type 1 receptor antagonists). Local reactions, such as phlebitis, have 
been reported in 3% to 14% of patients receiving vancomycin.
Neutropenia is also observed with vancomycin with a frequency of 
1% to 2%, although this increases to 12% to 13% in patients with long-term vancomycin therapy. Neutropenia usually resolves after discontinu -
ation of the drug, and it is recommended to monitor the leukocyte count weekly in patients receiving vancomycin for more than 1 week. A case of agranulocytosis was described on rechallenge in a patient with prior vancomycin-induced neutropenia. Neutropenia can be a glycopeptide class effect because cross-reactivity with teicoplanin has been described.
Thrombocytopenia associated with vancomycin use is very rarely 
reported, although it may be unrecognized. Vancomycin-dependent, platelet-reactive antibodies have been found in a high proportion of patients with suspected vancomycin-induced thrombocytopenia, sug -
gesting an immune-mediated platelet destruction.
123 Some cases can 
be associated with significant bleeding and, rarely, a significant drop in the platelet count can be seen within 24 hours after initiation of vancomycin administration.
123
Presumptive vancomycin-induced maculopapular or erythematous 
rash and drug-related fever were noted in 3% and 2% of patients receiving vancomycin, respectively.
Vancomycin has been associated with a series of immune-mediated 
reactions, or hypersensitivity reactions that include maculopapular rash, drug rash eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, linear immunoglobulin A bullous dermatosis, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis. The majority are nonimmediate reactions.
124 These immune-mediated reactions associated with vanco-
mycin may show cross-reactivity with teicoplanin.
Despite the clinical efficacy of oral vancomycin for treating C. 
difficile– related diarrhea, cases of C. difficile  colitis attributed to the use 
of IV vancomycin have been reported. Even though mild increases of transaminases have been reported in some patients receiving vancomycin, this antibiotic is not considered a drug with associated risk for severe liver injury.
125
Intraventricular administration of vancomycin is regarded as safe, 
although an episode of reversible decreased consciousness and two cases of CSF eosinophilia have been reported. Intraperitoneal administra -
tion of vancomycin is rarely associated with chemical peritonitis.
Scarce published data exist on the use of vancomycin during preg -
nancy, and it is classified as pregnancy category C. Vancomycin was noted to show minimal maternal-fetus transplacental passage in an ex vivo human placental perfusion model, but it reaches therapeutic levels in fetal circulation in the setting of overt amnionitis. Infants born to mothers who received a course of vancomycin during the second or the third trimester of pregnancy had no nephrotoxicity or sensorineural hearing loss. However, because no reports exist on vancomycin use during the first trimester, it is unknown if this drug produces fetal harm. This drug should be used only in situations when it is needed, considering the maternal benefit and the possible fetal risk. Vancomycin is excreted in human milk, resulting in potential exposure of infants to this agent, with an expected substantial effect on the intestinal  
microbiota.
Drug Interactions
Precipitation has been noted when a highly concentrated solution of vancomycin was mixed with ceftazidime, and the use of different syringes for the intraocular administration of these two antibiotics for the treat -
ment of endophthalmitis is recommended. Vancomycin has also been reported to be incompatible in IV solutions with other compounds, including chloramphenicol, methicillin, corticosteroids, aminophylline, barbiturates, thiazides, phenytoin, sodium bicarbonate, and sulfisoxazole. Precipitation with decreased activity of vancomycin was reported when infused together with heparin, although others were unable to detect an effect of heparin on vancomycin stability or activity. Anion-exchange resins, such as cholestyramine, can bind to vancomycin, decreasing the activity of vancomycin in the gut lumen when orally administered. In neonates with patent ductus arteriosus the use of indomethacin and ibuprofen has been associated with a 40% and 28% decreased clearance of vancomycin, respectively.concentrations of ≥
15 µg/mL and < 15 µg/mL, respectively.113 Lodise 
and associates114 had previously reported a significantly higher rate of 
nephrotoxicity in patients receiving 4  g/day or mo re of vancomycin 
versus those receiving < 4 g/day (34.6% and 6.7%, respectively). In the 
analysis of the relationship between vancomycin levels and nephrotoxicity, it should also be considered that levels may rise as result of a decreased renal clearance.
Other factors associated with increased vancomycin-related neph -
rotoxicity are weight ≥
101.4  kg (224  lb), an estim ated creatinine clearance 
≤86.6 mL/min, critically ill patients,114 and concomitant administration 
of other nephrotoxic agents, especially aminoglycosides.115 The time to 
the onset of vancomycin-related nephrotoxicity has been between 4.3 and 17 days of therapy initiation.
111
Even though vancomycin-associated nephrotoxicity is usually revers -
ible, patients with nephrotoxicity tend to have worse outcomes with prolonged hospital stays, higher health care costs, and even higher mortality than those patients that did not developed nephrotoxicity.
112 
Of note, use of a vancomycin loading dose has not been related to renal toxicity.
The coadministration of vancomycin (or an antistaphylococcal 
penicillin) plus gentamicin even at low dose (and for only the first 4 days of therapy) for 
S. aureus  native valve endocarditis and bacteremia 
in a prospective randomized trial was associated with a significant decrease in creatinine clearance ( ≈25%) compared with those treated 
with daptomycin alone (≈8%).
116 An increased rate of acute kidney 
injury was reported with the association of vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam, both in adults and children.
117 The augmented risk of 
this association maintained its significance when compared not only with monotherapy with vancomycin or piperacillin-tazobactam but also to the combination of vancomycin plus cefepime or a carbape-nem.
118 Rarely, acute interstitial nephritis has been associated with  
vancomycin use.
The overall risk for nephrotoxicity appears lower in the pediatric 
population than in the adult one. A rate of 14% has been noted in a retrospective study including patients from age 1 week to 19 years.
119 
Trough levels > 15 µg/mL, concomitant use of furosemide, and critically 
ill patients were the factors associated with decreased renal function.119 
Premature infants appear to have an even lower risk for developing vancomycin-related nephrotoxicity.
Several studies have assessed the nephrotoxicity associated with the 
mode of vancomycin administration as continuous infusion versus intermittent infusion. Different meta-analysis found that, overall, continuous infusion of vancomycin was associated with a lower risk for nephrotoxicity compared with intermittent infusion with no effect on treatment failure or mortality rates.
81,120 Specific biologic markers 
in blood, such as neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, kidney injury molecule-1, insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-2, among others, for early detection of vancomycin-induced renal damage have been developed and may become a useful tool for patients on vancomycin and at risk for nephrotoxicity.
108,121
Infusion-related reactions are the most common side effects seen 
with vancomycin. A rapid onset of an erythematous rash or pruritus affecting the head, face, neck, and upper trunk, with or without associated angioedema and hypotension (anaphylactoid reaction), commonly known as red neck or red man syndrome, has been reported during the infusion of vancomycin with variable frequency, ranging from 3.4% to 14%. Vancomycin may cause histamine release from degranulation of cutaneous mast cells. A retrospective study done in children observed a red man syndrome incidence of 14%; factors associated with it were vancomycin concentration and dose, white ethnicity, age older than 2 years, and antecedent use of antihistamines; a single nucleotide poly -
morphism in the diamine oxidase gene may be associated with predisposi -
tion to this reaction.
122
Severe hypotension and even cardiac arrest have also been reported 
during vancomycin infusion. The mechanism for these effects is probably related to histamine release from basophils and mast cells. These reactions usually subside soon after stopping the infusion without other measures. The incidence of these side effects can be reduced by decreasing the infusion rate or the concentration and by using antihistamines (histamine 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.385Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)plus flucoxacillin (for the first 7 days) versus vancomycin monotherapy 
also demonstrated a shorter duration of MRSA bacteremia (mean of 1.94 versus 3 days in the combination and monotherapy group, respec -
tively) with no differences in rates of mortality, metastatic infection, and nephrotoxicity.
135
Studies from the 1990s have shown that vancomycin was ineffective 
for most infections caused by MRSA strains with a vancomycin MIC ≥
4 µg/mL136 However, there has been much debate on the clinical impact 
of infections caused by MRSA (and MSSA) strains with high vancomycin MICs but within the current susceptibility range (MIC ≤
2 µg/mL). A 
meta-analysis published in 2012 found that infections caused by MRSA isolates with an MIC ≥
1.5 µg/mL were associated with increased mortal -
ity38; however, another meta-analysis including 8291 episodes of S. aureus  
bacteremia did not find any relationship with an MIC ≥1.5 µg/mL and 
mortality.39 A more recent study also failed to find an association between 
high MIC ( ≥1.5 µg/mL) and 30-day mortality among 1027 episodes of 
invasive S. aureus  infections.41 These discrepancies might be in part 
related to the innate variation among the tests used to determine the vancomycin MIC (i.e., broth microdilution, Etest, automated methods) and to the several other clinical, and even genetic, factors that might also impact the clinical outcome of patients with severe infections caused by MRSA and MSSA. Whether there is a relationship between clinical outcome and vancomycin MIC in patients with MSSA bacteremia/endocarditis treated with β-lactams is also unclear. Several retrospective 
and prospective studies looking for a possible effect have found an association between high vancomycin MIC ( ≥
1.5 µg/mL) and clinical 
outcome, although others have not.36,137 Thus clinical indicators rather 
than the vancomycin MIC per se should be the most important factor to guide therapeutic decisions in regard to vancomycin use.
For the treatment of enterococcal endocarditis, vancomycin may be 
considered if the infecting strain is highly ampicillin resistant (typically an 
E. faecium  isolate) or the patient is truly allergic to β-lactam antibiotics 
(preferably confirmed by skin test) and cannot be desensitized. In these instances vancomycin could be combined with gentamicin or strepto-mycin to achieve bactericidal activity (if the organism does not display high-level resistance to the aminoglycoside).
138
For native valve endocarditis caused by viridans streptococci, 
Granulicatella  spp. and Abiotrophia defectiva  (both formerly classified 
within the group of nutritionally variant streptococci), Gemella  spp., 
and S. bovis  (now S. gallolyticus ), a 4-week course of vancomycin has 
been recommended for patients unable to tolerate β-lactams.128,139 In 
the rare case of oral streptococci highly resistant to penicillin (MIC ≥
4 µg/mL), vancomycin is the first therapeutic option.
For prosthetic valve endocarditis due to methicillin-resistant 
staphylococci, vancomycin in combination with rifampin for 6 weeks, together with gentamicin for the first 2 weeks (if the strain is susceptible), is the recommended regimen. This combination was derived from patients with 
S. epidermidis  prosthetic valve endocarditis and has also 
been recommended for MRSA prosthetic valve endocarditis despite lack of proven clinical benefit,
128 because of the poor prognosis associated 
with this condition; also for the latter reason, surgical treatment should be undertaken if at all possible.
Vancomycin also plays an important role in the treatment of 
endocarditis caused by diphtheroids, including 
Corynebacterium jeikeium,  
which typically occurs in patients with prosthetic valves. The addition of rifampin has been suggested, although with a paucity of clinical evidence. Vancomycin has also been effective in a few reported cases of penicillin- and cephalosporin-resistant 
S. pneumoniae  endocarditis 
and in the experimental model of endocarditis caused by this organism. Empirical treatment of central venous catheter–related infections should include a glycopeptide antibiotic because methicillin-resistant coagulase-negative staphylococci, MRSA, or other gram-positive organisms are frequently found, and clinical trials have shown the effectiveness of vancomycin in this setting. Please refer also to Chapter 80.
Meningitis and Ventriculitis
Vancomycin in combination with cefotaxime or ceftriaxone is the treatment of choice for empirical therapy of patients with suspected or proven pneumococcal meningitis until susceptibility data are available, in areas where infections caused by penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae  Clinical Uses
Skin and Soft Tissue Infections
During the past decade or so, vancomycin has been included as the 
comparator in numerous studies of ABSSSI caused by gram-positive bacteria when new agents with activity against MRSA were evaluated. None of these trials showed significant differences in the primary clinical outcome, although post hoc analysis done in some of these studies displayed some differences favoring the new drug. Thus, and because of its long experience and low cost, when an IV antibiotic is required, vancomycin is still considered the drug of choice for ABSSSI caused by MRSA.
43,126
Bacteremia and Endocarditis
Although recently debated,64,127 vancomycin is still the first treatment 
option for bacteremia, endocarditis, and other serious infections caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococci; the same indication applies for those infections caused by methicillin-susceptible strains in subjects with a history of significant allergic reactions to β-lactams who cannot 
be desensitized. Failures have been reported with this glycopeptide in the treatment of staphylococcal endocarditis, and its effectiveness has been questioned based on the high rate of unsatisfactory response among injection drug users with S. aureus endocarditis, the slow response 
(median duration of bacteremia, 7 days) in patients with MRSA endocarditis, and the higher failure rate for right-sided MSSA endocarditis when compared with cloxacillin. Because of studies showing worse outcomes in patients with MSSA bacteremia, vancomycin should not be used purely for its dosing convenience or in patients with MSSA endocarditis with a suspicious history of immediate hypersensitivity reaction to β-lactam antibiotics for whom skin testing for penicillin 
allergy should be performed and patients desensitized, as needed.
The addition of gentamicin to vancomycin was previously suggested 
for the treatment of MRSA native valve endocarditis.
128 However, owing 
to the lack of clinical studies showing improved outcome with this combination and the increase in nephrotoxicity with vancomycin plus aminoglycosides (which may be higher than previously appreciated),
129 
the risks of adding gentamicin appear to exceed the presumed benefits.130 
The addition of rifampin to vancomycin in the treatment of native valve endocarditis caused by 
S. aureus  was successful in a few reports and in 
an animal model, but not in a randomized clinical trial, done in an era before the documentation of emergence of hVISA. A retrospective study of patients with native valve 
S. aureus  endocarditis, some of whom 
received rifampin, warned about the potential risks associated with the addition of rifampin, such as emergence of rifampin resistance, hepa -
totoxicity, and drug interactions. Even more, a recent randomized trial showed that adjunctive rifampin to standard therapy did not affect the 
S. aureus  bacteremia–related mortality.131
Different studies have reported a median of 7 to 9 days of bacteremia 
in patients with MRSA endocarditis treated with vancomycin. The decision as to when a patient treated with vancomycin for a serious MRSA infection is a clinical failure is a matter of debate. Several factors might be involved in this determination, such as the patient’s overall clinical response, the presence of adequate vancomycin levels and of eradicable foci of infection, and the vancomycin MIC of the infecting strain. Although some have promoted a move away from vancomycin 
use when the infecting organism’s vancomycin MIC value is 1.5  µg/mL 
per Etest measurement, this needs to be carefully interpreted because of the limitations and variability of the available susceptibility methods, such as Etest, automated, and broth microdilution.
32,132 Even with MRSA 
strains having vancomycin MICs <2 µg/mL, clinical and microbiologic 
response should be closely monitored; if response is not considered adequate despite removal of foci of infection or foreign-body device, then another treatment might be indicated regardless of the vancomycin MIC of the infecting strain.
43 In any situation an alternative treatment 
to vancomycin is recommended for MRSA isolates with MIC >2 µg/
mL (VISA strains).43
The combination of vancomycin with β-lactams has demonstrated 
enhanced in vitro activity against S. aureus,  including MRSA, hVISA, 
and VISA isolates. Retrospective studies appear to show an advantage of this combination over vancomycin monotherapy in patients with MRSA bacteremia,
133,134 and a prospective randomized trial of vancomycin 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.386Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
in the 60-day mortality. Considering these caveats, linezolid is a good 
choice, if not better, for the treatment of documented MRSA nosocomial pneumonia than is standard vancomycin (without loading) dosing, particularly in patients at high risk for nephrotoxicity. The addition of rifampin to vancomycin appeared to improve the outcomes of ventilator-associated pneumonia caused by MRSA, compared with vancomycin alone, in a small randomized open-label trial
147; this finding should be 
confirmed in other prospective studies.
More recently, vancomycin was the comparator arm in two large 
randomized clinical trials of hospital-acquired pneumonia caused by gram-positive pathogens in which telavancin was noninferior to van -
comycin.
148 Another agent, such as TMP-SMX, was found superior to 
vancomycin, with significant lower clinical failure and 30-day mortality rate in a small, retrospective, case-control, and single-center study of patients with MRSA pneumonia
149; prospective studies are needed.
Osteomyelitis
Vancomycin is the agent of choice for osteomyelitis caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococci, and it is an alternative for methicillin-susceptible strains in patients with intolerance or with allergic reactions to β-lactams 
agents.
43 Among serious MRSA infections, osteomyelitis is among those 
with highest relapse and failure rates.150 Failure rates between 35% and 
46% have been reported in retrospective studies of patients with osteomyelitis treated with vancomycin.
150,151 In accordance, animal models 
have shown poor results using vancomycin for the treatment of experi -
mental MRSA osteomyelitis, whereas the coadministration of rifampin has been consistently associated with improved response. The duration of treatment of osteomyelitis has not been clearly defined; at least 8 weeks of therapy has been suggested for MRSA osteomyelitis, although the decision about the length of IV versus oral (or oral step-down after an IV course) has to be individualized.
43 Complete surgical débridement 
is critical for a successful outcome. Vancomycin has been used successfully in conjunction with rifampin as in some studies of prosthetic joint infection.
Pseudomembranous Colitis
Oral vancomycin was used historically for the treatment of pseudo -
membranous colitis caused by C. difficile and pseudomembranous 
enterocolitis caused by S. aureus,  now a rare disease. Oral metronidazole 
and oral vancomycin, administered for 7 to 10 days, were found to have similar failure and relapse rates in the treatment of C. difficile colitis 
and, because of concern about selection of VRE, this drug was recom -
mended for the treatment of C. difficile colitis only when there is no 
clinical response or intolerance to metronidazole or when the infected woman is pregnant.
152 However, since the emergence of an epidemic 
toxin-hyperproducing strain in North America and Europe (named BI/NAP1/027) associated with more severe disease, higher rates of metronidazole failures have been reported. Studies comparing oral metronidazole with oral vancomycin showed no differences in the outcome for mild disease but, for severe C. difficile  colitis, the response 
rate was 76% and 97% for metronidazole and vancomycin, respectively (P = .02).
153 Therefore treatment with vancomycin should be considered 
in patients with severe C. difficile disease, defined as those having two or more of the following: age older than 65 years, fever, leukocyte count ≥15,000 cells/mm,
3 serum creatinine concentration increase ≥50% from 
baseline, and serum albumin concentration <2.5 mg/dL, or the presence 
of pseudomembranous colitis at endoscopy or hospitalization in an ICU.
153 Until 2011, when fidaxomicin was approved, oral vancomycin 
was the only FDA-licensed drug for the treatment of C. difficile colitis. 
It can be administered as a capsule formulation or by directly taking the IV form. Because of the poor concentration in stools after IV administration, vancomycin should not be used solely via this route. In cases of severe disease or in the presence of ileus or toxic megacolon, 
or both, IV metronidazole plus high doses of oral vancomycin (500  mg 
every 6 hours)154 and intracolonic administration of this glycopeptide 
antibiotic154 have been helpful, although, in some cases colectomy has 
been needed. Fecal transplantation has been successful in various reports, including for severe and/or relapsing disease. In two randomized trials the new macrocyclic nonabsorbable antibiotic fidaxomicin showed similar efficacy with fewer recurrence rates than oral vancomycin for have been documented
140 or where the prevalence of isolates not sus-
ceptible to ceftriaxone is >3% in adult and 9% in children.141 If pneu-
mococcal meningitis is confirmed and the isolate shows an MIC of ceftriaxone/cefotaxime ≥
1 µg/mL (considered nonsusceptible for 
meningeal isolates by the CLSI), the administration of the combination of vancomycin and ceftriaxone or cefotaxime should continue.
142 In 
children rifampin may be added to this regimen if the S. pneumoniae  
isolate shows an MIC of ceftriaxone/cefotaxime of >2 µg/mL.140 In adults 
the addition of rifampin, if susceptible, to the regimen appears justified in cases caused by ceftriaxone-nonsusceptible S. pneumoniae  strains 
when dexamethasone is also administered
142; the clinical benefit of this 
approach has not been evaluated, but rifampin increased the activity of ceftriaxone and vancomycin in an experimental model using a highly ceftriaxone-resistant S. pneumoniae  strain. Vancomycin as the only 
antimicrobial agent for which concomitant administration of dexa -
methasone has been associated with a high failure rate in adults with pneumococcal meningitis. Higher vancomycin doses appear to overcome the negative effect of dexamethasone on the vancomycin CSF concentration.
Vancomycin has a major role in the treatment of infections related 
to CSF shunts, the most common cause being 
S. epidermidis.  IV with or 
without intraventricular vancomycin administration (see “ Administration ” 
for dosing suggestions), together with shunt hardware removal, followed by external drainage and placement of a new shunt after confirmed CSF sterility, appears to be the most appropriate treatment modality. Determination of vancomycin levels in the CSF is recommended to ensure adequate concentrations. The addition of rifampin to the regimen should be contemplated for susceptible organisms when bacterial eradication is not achieved with vancomycin alone. Vancomycin is also recommended for the empirical treatment of postsurgical meningitis.
142
Owing to the poor prognosis and low therapeutic response to standard 
doses of vancomycin in patients with postsurgical MRSA meningitis, 
high-dose vancomycin (15–20  mg/kg every 8–12 h ours) targeting a 
trough concentration of 25 to 30  µg/mL has been recommended.43 
Another option, especially in nonresponding cases, is to administer 
vancomycin by continuous infusion, also at a high dose (50–60  mg/kg/
day after a loading dose of 15  mg/kg)74; the toxicity of both options is 
likely greater. Rifampin could be added to vancomycin despite the lack of clinical data supporting the combination, and intrathecal administra -
tion of vancomycin may also be another therapeutic approach.
142 In 
rare but severe cases of community-acquired meningitis caused by MRSA, the addition of rifampin or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) to vancomycin has been used.
143 For more details in the 
management of meningitis, see Chapters 86, 87, and 92.
Pneumonia
Vancomycin has been considered the drug of choice for MRSA pneu -
monia, but high failure rates associated with its use have been consistently reported, which may be related to the fact that many of these patients are critically ill and, at least in part, to underdosing this agent, including lack of a loading dose. Indeed, clinical and bacteriologic success rates have been associated with higher AUC/MIC values (≥400) in patients with MRSA pneumonia.
55 In two randomized, double-blind trials of 
patients with nosocomial pneumonia, no significant differences in the response rate were observed in the vancomycin group compared with the linezolid group.
144,145 However, when a post hoc analysis of a subset 
of patients with MRSA ventilator-associated pneumonia was done, linezolid displayed significantly better cure rates. In a more recent randomized multicenter clinical trial, linezolid showed significantly 
better cure rates than vancomycin (15  mg/kg every 12 h ours, with 
adjustment based on trough levels) in patients with nosocomial pneu -
monia caused by MRSA (57.6% vs. 46.6%, respectively; 95% CI, 0.5% to 21.6%; P = .042).
146 The group of patients treated with linezolid also 
experienced a significantly higher rate of eradication or presumed eradication at the end of the study. However, this trial had various shortcomings, including the fact that fewer than half of the patients 
had achieved the target trough level (15  µg/mL) on day 3, there was 
no vancomycin loading dose, more patients receiving vancomycin had concomitant bacteremia and kidney disease, about half of the patients received vancomycin for fewer than 10 days, and there was no difference 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.387Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)Other Uses
Vancomycin is active against the majority of bacteria that cause post-
traumatic and postoperative endophthalmitis and is the recommended agent for empirical therapy for intraocular gram-positive organisms in this disease. Animal models of endophthalmitis have also demonstrated the usefulness of vancomycin in this setting. Administration of intra -
peritoneal vancomycin as an intermittent or continuous dosing schedule is recommended in patients undergoing CAPD with bacterial peritonitis.
92 
For uncomplicated peritonitis caused by coagulase-negative staphylococci, the duration of treatment is usually 2 weeks; for enterococci and S. 
aureus,  a 3-week course appears necessary. Many of the peritonitis cases 
caused by S. aureus are associated with exit site infection that required peritoneal catheter removal to resolve the infectious process.In uncomplicated intraluminal bacteremia associated with a tunneled central venous catheter or implantable devices, especially those caused by coagulase-negative staphylococci, the use of antibiotic lock therapy appears to improve the rate of catheter salvage when added to the standard IV treatment. A lock solution containing vancomycin at a 
final concentration of 5  mg/mL plu s normal saline or 50 to 100 units 
of heparin has been recommended.166 The lock solution should have 
an indwelling time of no more than 48 hours, and the duration of the lock therapy is usually 2 weeks. If the isolated pathogen is 
S. aureus,  
because high failure rates have been described with antibiotic lock therapy, the catheter should be removed. The use of prophylactic antibiotic lock solution has also been recommended for the prevention of long-term central venous catheter infection for patients with recurrent catheter-related bacteremia and, in oncology patients, for those at high risk for severe infections or where the baseline central catheter infection rate is increased.
167 Prevention of central venous catheter infections in patients 
undergoing hemodialysis with antibiotic lock solutions also appears to be effective, although use of other agents may be more common.
Teicoplanin
Teicoplanin (formerly known as teichomycin A 2) was obtained from 
Actinoplanes teichomyceticus  recovered from a soil sample in India in 
1978. This glycopeptide antibiotic is currently available in many countries in Europe, Asia, and South America but not in the United States. The FDA has not approved it, probably because of no clear benefit over vancomycin (Fig. 30.2). Teicoplanin is actually a mixture of related glycopeptide analogues with a basic structure characterized by a linear heptapeptide, the distinct carbohydrates d-mannose and d-glycosamine, 
and an acyl residue that carries various fatty acids, which define the members of the teicoplanin complex. Teicoplanin has a molecular weight estimated as 1900 Da.
Antimicrobial Activity and Resistance
Teicoplanin inhibits cell wall synthesis by a mechanism similar to that described for vancomycin, although some differences in activity exist. For instance, MICs of teicoplanin against coagulase-negative staphylococci tend to be more variable. In one survey, 21% and 1% of coagulase-negative staphylococci and S. aureus  strains, respectively, from bacteremic patients 
were nonsusceptible to teicoplanin based on the EUCAST breakpoint (MIC >
4 µg/mL).168 A more recent study done in France found that 
33% of the coagulase-negative staphylococci isolates were nonsusceptible to teicoplanin (MIC >
4 µg/mL).169 High teicoplanin MICs appear to 
be more frequent among S. haemolyticus than other staphylococcal 
species.170 On the other hand, the MICs of teicoplanin for Enterococcus  
spp., S. pneumoniae, S. gallolyticus (formerly S. bovis), viridans-group 
streptococci, and other streptococci are usually lower than those of vancomycin. The in vitro activity of teicoplanin seems to be similar to that reported with vancomycin against L. monocytogenes, Corynebac -
terium  spp. (including C. jeikeium ), and gram-positive anaerobes, such 
as Clostridium  spp. (including C. difficile), Peptostreptococcus  spp., 
Actinomyces  spp., and Propionibacterium  spp. No international consensus 
has been established for teicoplanin susceptibility breakpoints for S. 
aureus, but they have been set as ≤
2 µg/mL and ≤ 8 µg/mL by the 
EUCAST and CLSI, respectively (www.eucast.org/clinical_breakpoints). The same breakpoints have been provided by both groups for Enterococcus  
spp. For coagulase-negative staphylococci, these values have been set as ≤
4 µg/mL by the EUCAST and ≤8 µg/mL by the CLSI.the treatment of C. difficile colitis.155 Vancomycin, as well as fidaxomicin, 
is also an option for secondary recurrences in a tapered or pulsed regimen.
156
Please also see Chapter 243 for further discussion on treatment 
options.
Febrile Neutropenia
The use of vancomycin in febrile neutropenic patients has been a controversial issue for a number of years. No differences in morbidity and mortality have been detected with the use of vancomycin as part of the initial regimen, even if a gram-positive organism was initially isolated or in persistently febrile patients despite the use of piperacillin-tazobactam for 48 to 60 hours. The inclusion of vancomycin in the initial empirical treatment of patients with febrile neutropenia is recom -
mended in certain clinical situations, such as presumptive serious catheter-related infection, prior colonization with resistant microorgan -
isms (i.e., penicillin- and cephalosporin-resistant S. pneumoniae  and 
viridans streptococci or MRSA), positive blood culture for a gram-positive microorganism, skin or soft tissue infection of any site, radiologically documented pneumonia, or evidence of hemodynamic instability.
157 
Others advocate empirical initial use of vancomycin in the presence of severe mucositis and prior prophylaxis with quinolones, which could be associated with severe penicillin-tolerant viridans streptococci infections. However, carbapenems, cefepime, and piperacillin-tazobactam are considered effective monotherapy regimens in this situation. Empirical vancomycin, if used, should be stopped after 2 days if initial workup did not reveal a gram-positive organism resistant to the patient’s antimicrobial regimen. See also Chapter 306.
Prophylaxis
Vancomycin is an alternative choice for prophylaxis against endocarditis in subjects with cardiac conditions considered at risk for endocarditis and who are allergic to ampicillin.
158 Vancomycin is also recommended 
as a prophylactic agent for β-lactam–allergic patients undergoing 
cardiovascular surgery or orthopedic procedures with hardware placement and for surgical procedures requiring prophylaxis in centers with a high prevalence of MRSA, although not all studies have shown the effectiveness of this approach.
159 In the setting of a cluster of infections by methicillin-
resistant staphylococci at the institutional level, a switch from β-lactams 
to vancomycin, or the addition of vancomycin, as surgical prophylaxis may be recommended.
159
A retrospective study of patients undergoing primary joint arthro -
plasty showed the addition of vancomycin to cefazolin did not decrease the surgical site infection rate.
160 And indeed, it was associated with 
significantly higher incidence of acute kidney injury than the cefazolin alone group.
161
If vancomycin is chosen for prophylaxis of endocarditis or surgical 
site infections, the infusion should start within 120 minutes of the beginning of the procedure. Each hospital should develop institutional guidelines on the use of vancomycin for the prevention of surgical site infections.
159 The CDC guidelines have recommended the use of van -
comycin for the prevention of perinatal group B streptococcal disease in the case of penicillin-allergic women at high risk for β-lactam anaphylaxis, in whom a streptococci isolate was resistant (or with inducible resistance) to clindamycin or with an unknown susceptibility pattern.
162
The use of local vancomycin powder in adults undergoing spine 
surgery appears to be effective to prevent deep and superficial surgical site infections
163; however, most of these data come from retrospective 
studies, and the form and dose of each application have not been clearly established. The presumptive benefit of this approach appears to be most appreciated in high-risk patients or in centers with high postsurgical infection rates. In those spine surgeries where vancomycin powder has been applied and surgical site infection still occurs, a predominance of gram-negative bacilli has been reported.
164
Even though no major side effects have been associated with this 
route of vancomycin administration, in vitro damage of dural cell damage has been induced by vancomycin in a concentration-dependent manner.
165 
More prospective studies are necessary in this field before a more concise recommendation can be made. For further details, see Chapter 313.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.388Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
 4 µg/mL, respectively. At steady state, teicoplanin mean trough concentra -
tions are 14  µg/mL after IV administration of 6  mg/kg/day an d 23  µg/
mL after 12  mg/kg/day. I t appears that teicoplanin trough concentrations 
≥10 µg/mL are required for clinical success in the majority of infections 
by susceptible organisms, although for serious staphylococcal infections 
(i.e., endocarditis), trough levels >20 µg/mL are recommended.171
The distribution of teicoplanin is best described by a three-
compartment kinetic model, and its volume of distribution at steady 
state ranges from 800 to 1600  mL/kg.172 Teicoplanin is approximately 
90% bound to serum proteins (albumin) and highly bound in tissues, which may explain its low clearance and long half-life, which has ranged from 83 to 168 hours.
172 Animal studies have reported better bone 
concentrations with teicoplanin than with vancomycin after equivalent IV infusion. However, in patients with osteomyelitis, vancomycin achieved slightly higher levels in cortical and cancellous bone than teicoplanin.
79 
The concentration of teicoplanin in cortical and cancellous bone, which 
has more abundant vascular supply, was 12% (mean, 2  µg/mL) and 
49% (mean, 7.5  µg/mL) of concomitant plasma concentration at steady 
state (with a daily dose of 10  mg/kg), resp ectively.79 Penetration into 
the heart; pericardium; mediastinal tissue; and synovial, pleural, peritoneal, and pericardial fluid is also considered adequate. The concentration of teicoplanin in the epithelial lining fluid at steady state 
was about 30% (mean concentration, 4.9  µg/mL) of the corresponding 
trough serum level in 13 patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia 
treated with 12  mg/kg/day.173
In experimental endocarditis teicoplanin appears to be concentrated 
only at the periphery of the vegetation. After IV infusion, significant concentrations of teicoplanin are generally not achieved in vitreous samples nor in the CSF , even in the presence of meningitis. A high concentration of teicoplanin in feces is achieved after oral administration 
of 100  mg.
Teicoplanin is almost entirely eliminated by renal mechanisms and, 
even though this agent used to be regarded as a nondialyzable drug, hemodialysis using high-flux membranes, CVVHD, CVVH, and CVVHDF remove significant quantities. Teicoplanin levels seem not to be significantly modified in subjects undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Teicoplanin should not be used during pregnancy (pregnancy category B) or lactation unless the potential benefits outweigh the possible risks.Strains of 
S. aureus  susceptible to vancomycin but displaying higher 
MICs of teicoplanin were reported before the description of VISA isolates, and high MICs of teicoplanin were subsequently found in VISA isolates as well
10 (also called GISA). Almost all VISA strains are “cross-resistant” 
to teicoplanin. However, some teicoplanin-heteroresistant S. aureus  
strains may test susceptible to vancomycin, and specific cell wall changes may affect teicoplanin more so than vancomycin. Greater MIC increases for teicoplanin compared with vancomycin were found by inactivation of the 
tcaA  gene in GISA strains, which encodes a transmembrane 
protein presumably associated with cell wall metabolism. As expected, decreased activity of teicoplanin and selection of subpopulations with higher glycopeptide MICs were observed in animal models infected with VISA strains. Because disk tests and some automated systems do not reliably recognize MRSA strains with decreased susceptibility to teicoplanin, Etest and agar dilution methods are recommended when needed. As described with vancomycin, MICs determined by Etest tend to be higher than those determined by broth microdilution. Most of the VRSA isolates carrying the enterococcal 
vanA  gene cluster described 
in the United States also showed decreased susceptibility to teicoplanin (≥
16 µg/mL).
In general, strains that produce peptidoglycan precursors ending in 
d-Ala-d-Lac, encoded by the vanABDM  gene clusters, are likely to be 
resistant to teicoplanin (VanA, VanB, VanD, and VanM). However, VanB-type strains are usually susceptible in vitro because teicoplanin does not induce expression of the gene cluster. However, mutations that result in constitutive expression of the 
vanB  operon can occur in 
vivo and lead to resistance. Thus, even if MICs are within the susceptible range, teicoplanin should probably not be used to treat infections caused by VRE strains due to the risk for development of resistance while on therapy. Other enterococci that synthesize peptidoglycan precursors ending in d-Ala-d-Ser (VanC, VanE, VanG, and VanN) show low tei -
coplanin MICs.
Clinical Pharmacokinetics
Teicoplanin has favorable pharmacokinetic properties that permit administration by IV bolus or intramuscular route. As with vancomycin, this agent is not significantly absorbed when administered orally. After 
an IV dose of 6  mg/kg, th e mean peak (at 2 hours) and trough (at 24 
hours) concentrations of teicoplanin in serum are 111.8  µg/mL and OHO
HO
HO
HOHONH
HNN
HNHHNHN HN
OH
OHOH
OHHO
HO
HO
HOOH OH
Cl O
O
O
OO
OO O
O OH
HH
O
OO
ONH2CH3
CH3
CH3
OO Teicoplanin A2-1   R = Fatty acyl side chains
 Teicoplanin A2-2 
 Teicoplanin A2-3
 Teicoplanin A2-4
 Teicoplanin A2-5O
CH3
CH3
CH3O
CH3
O
CH3OOR–HN
FIG. 30.2  Chemical structure of teicoplanin.  
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.389Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)intraperitoneal dosage of teicoplanin (15  mg/kg every 7 d ays) in children 
with CAPD peritonitis.
Monitoring of teicoplanin serum levels is not generally needed with 
doses < 12 mg/kg/day. IV drug abusers with endocarditis have a higher 
clearance rate of teicoplanin, thus suggesting a need for serum level 
measurements in this population. It has been suggested that a trough level should be drawn to ensure teicoplanin concentrations in serum 
of at least 20  µg/mL and even >30 µg/mL in patients with bone and 
joint infections and endocarditis, respectively,171,178 especially if teicoplanin 
is administered as monotherapy. Other clinical scenarios in which measurement of teicoplanin serum levels might be appropriate include patients not responding to treatment, patients with severe burns, and patients with rapidly changing renal function or on CRRT.
As with vancomycin, some discrepancies exist on the clinical impact 
of teicoplanin MIC in patients with MRSA bacteremia because a tei -
coplanin MIC >
1.5 µg/mL by Etest was associated with worse outcome 
in one retrospective study but not in others, including 101 and 270 
patients treated with teicoplanin (6  mg/kg/day aft er loading dose), 
respectively.182,183 Of interest, the in vitro combination of teicoplanin 
with various cephalosporins could decrease the teicoplanin MIC to ≤
2 µg/mL of several hVISA and VISA isolates.184
Adverse Events
Teicoplanin is generally regarded as a safe drug. Rates of adverse events and nephrotoxicity have been reported more frequently in individuals receiving vancomycin than those receiving teicoplanin. Teicoplanin is nephrotoxic in animals, although at much higher doses than those used in humans. A lower rate of nephrotoxicity was reported with teicoplanin combined with aminoglycosides or with amphotericin B, compared with vancomycin combined with these agents.
185 The most common 
side effects associated with teicoplanin are maculopapular or erythematous rash and drug-related fever in about 7% and 6% of the patients, respec -
tively.
186 These events are more frequent in patients receiving doses 
>12 mg/kg/day. Cases of allergic cross-reactions between vancomycin 
and teicoplanin have been reported, but vancomycin-allergic patients also have been successfully treated with teicoplanin. For example, in one study, cross-reaction in patients with vancomycin-induced fever or rash or both was seen in about 10%, whereas 50% of patients with vancomycin-related neutropenia developed neutropenia while on tei -
coplanin.
187 Compared with vancomycin, a meta-analysis showed that 
teicoplanin was associated with a lower rate of total adverse events, nephrotoxicity, and red man syndrome than vancomycin.
188
The anaphylactoid reaction that has been described with vancomycin 
IV administration (known as red man or red neck syndrome) is extremely uncommon with the infusion of teicoplanin. Ototoxicity related to teicoplanin is also rare. Thrombocytopenia can occur at a rate similar to that found with vancomycin use and also appears to be more frequent at higher doses. Other hematologic effects, such as neutropenia and eosinophilia, are infrequently reported.
Clinical Uses
A failure rate of >50% in severe staphylococcal infections was found 
in initial studies using a low dose of teicoplanin (3  mg/kg/day). E ven 
at higher doses (6  mg/kg/day an d 10  mg/kg/day), teico planin was 
associated with a significantly lower response rates compared with vancomycin in patients with endocarditis or intravascular infection caused by S. aureus. Teicoplanin trough levels <
20 µg/mL have been 
correlated with treatment failure.171 Because a high failure rate was 
observed in patients with MSSA bacteremia treated with teicoplanin 
at 400  mg/day, if this agent is used for the treatment of S. aureus 
endocarditis or other serious staphylococcal infection, a high dose 
(probably 12  mg/kg/day) sh ould be considered. For less serious infections, 
teicoplanin at standard doses appears as efficacious as vancomycin, as shown by a meta-analysis including 24 randomized clinical trials in which no difference in terms of 30-day mortality was found.
188 Also, 
for patients with hospital-acquired MRSA bacteremia (mostly catheter-related infections), teicoplanin showed similar outcomes to vancomycin in an observational prospective study.
189
Teicoplanin might be an alternative in the treatment of native valve 
endocarditis caused by viridans streptococci and enterococci, in doses The oral dose of teicoplanin for the treatment of C. difficile  pseu-
domembranous colitis ranges from 100 to 400  mg twice da ily for 10 
days. The parenteral teicoplanin dose depends on the patient’s age and renal function, the suspected or known microorganism, and site of infection. Because of its long half-life, a loading dose of teicoplanin is required to achieve earlier optimal steady-state serum levels. For most 
infections the regimen recommended is 400  mg (6  mg/kg) every 12 
hours for three doses and then once daily, which attains a trough level >
10 µg/mL by the fourth day of treatment. The loading dose should be 
given to all patients regardless of the patient’s creatinine clearance. Then, 
in adults with normal renal function, 400  mg (6  mg/kg) every 24 h ours 
is the usual maintenance dose. A higher dose, 800  mg (up t o 12  mg/
kg) every 12 hours for three doses and then every 24 hours to target a 
trough concentration of more than 20  µg/mL, is recommended for 
more difficult infections, such as septic arthritis, osteomyelitis, and endocarditis, although some have recommended a trough >
30 µg/mL 
for the latter174 (see Table 30.1). However, teicoplanin trough levels of 
28 µg/mL or greater have been associated with hepatotoxicity.175
Even though the recommended high trough levels of teicoplanin appear 
associated with better clinical outcome, reaching the target concentration is challenging. A recent retrospective study found that only 32% of patients with MRSA infections treated with teicoplanin achieved a desired trough ≥
15 µg/mL on day 3 or 4 of therapy. Emphasizing the effect of the initial 
dosing, the trough target was readily achieved in those receiving a higher loading dose (1600 mg given as 800 mg on day 1 and on day 2) and in those with a creatinine clearance <
56 mL/min receiving a lower loading 
dose (1200  mg, 800  mg/day on day 1).176 Even more, an enhanced teico -
planin dosing regimen was evaluated in a prospective study of patients with a creatinine clearance <
60 mL/min (10  mg/kg twice on the first day, 
followed by 10  mg/kg/day an d 6.7  mg/kg/day on t he second and third 
day, if the creatinine clearance was between 40 and 60  mL/min and <40 mL/
min, respectively). The median minimum concentration (C min) on day 4 
and the proportion of patients with the target C min between 15 and 30  µg/
mL in the enhanced loading group versus those in the conventional 
regimen group were 18.1  µg/mL and 12.1  µg/mL, and 20.4% and 7.1% 
(P < .001), respectively.177 In the same study, among 106 patients with 
MRSA infection, a significantly higher clinical success rate was observed in those achieving a C
min >15 µg/mL.
The recommended doses for neonates is 16  mg/kg initia lly, followed 
by 8 mg/kg daily and, for children older than 2 months, 10  mg/kg every  
12 hours for three doses and then every 24 hours.172 In the presence of 
renal insufficiency, teicoplanin dose adjustment is required only after the end of the loading doses. In subjects with creatinine clearance between 
30 and 80  mL/min., the dai ly dose should be halved or given every 48 
hours and, in those with more severe renal failure or on hemodialysis with conventional membranes, the daily dose should be one-third or be administered every 72 hours.
172,178 Others have suggested the admin -
istration of 10  mg/kg every 48 t o 72 hours in patients on hemodialysis, 
which was consistently associated with trough levels >10 µg/mL.179
Teicoplanin is significantly removed by CVVH and CVVHDF but 
with high variability, depending on the operating conditions of the renal replacement therapy used and the patient’s serum albumin concentration. A reasonable proposed dosing regimen to generate a 
trough teicoplanin level of 10 to 20  µg/mL is 6  mg/kg every 12 hours 
for three or four doses, followed by 3 to 6  mg/kg/day180; others have 
suggested higher daily doses (600–1800  mg/day), ta rgeting 15 to 25  µg/
mL in patients undergoing CVVH.181 However, because teicoplanin 
serum levels in this setting can be affected by the serum albumin concentration, the presence of residual renal function, and the volume ultrafiltration rate, therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended in critically ill patients undergoing CRRT.
180
Peritoneal administration of teicoplanin results in serum concentra -
tions similar to those achieved by IV concentration; however, after IV administration, penetration of teicoplanin into the peritoneal dialysate does not achieve local therapeutic levels. Teicoplanin has been admin-
istered in doses of 20  mg/L in each ba g for the first week, in alternate 
bags during the second week, and only in the overnight dwell bag in 
the third week. Another approach is to dose 20  mg/L in each exc hange 
(four times daily) for 10 days or for 5 days after clearing of bacteria from the dialysate. Others have successfully used intermittent 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.390Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
after vancomycin, once the patient has improved. In other instances 
teicoplanin could be chosen as a prophylactic antibiotic for selected surgical procedures, such as cardiovascular surgery in centers with a high prevalence of MRSA. Teicoplainin may also be useful as outpatient therapy for some streptococcal infections (e.g., viridans) that require prolonged therapy when there is documented β-lactam allergy.
LIPOGLYCOPEPTIDES
Lipoglycopeptides are semisynthetic derivatives of naturally occurring glycopeptides produced by changes of glycopeptide molecules. These three new agents—ritavancin, dalbavancin, and telavancin—contain lipophilic side chains, which appears to increase the ability to kill bacteria by also binding to the cell membrane, producing important disruptions in the physicochemical properties of this cell component, leading to cell death. Furthermore, the lipophilic chain confers a longer half-life and converts these agents (with the exception of dalbavancin) into concentration-dependent bactericidal antibiotics.
192 Lipoglycopeptides 
display similar spectrum of activity to that of glycopeptides, but their additional chemical modifications seem to increase their potency. Of importance, the hydrophobicity of these compounds has made it difficult to standardize susceptibility testing because the drugs diffuse poorly in agar media and tend to bind to plastic surfaces. These properties led to important modifications in the method for MIC determination with the addition of the nonionic surfactant polysorbate-80 at a final concentra -
tion of 0.002%.
193 Indeed, using this methodology, isolates with MICs 
higher than the breakpoint for susceptibility for each lipoglycopeptide have been extremely rare, although both in vitro and in vivo selection of resistant strains has been observed.
194,195
Telavancin
Structure and Mechanism of Action
Telavancin (Vibativ; Theravance Biopharma, South San Francisco, CA) 
was the first of the lipoglycopeptides to be available on the market and is approved in the United States and Canada for the treatment of adults with ABSSSI due to gram-positive pathogens. In addition, telavancin has an indication in the United States and Europe for hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia caused or believed to be caused by MRSA when other options are not suitable (Fig. 30.3).
Telavancin, a derivative of vancomycin, is produced by alkylation 
of the vancosamine nitrogen with a hydrophobic (decyl-aminoethyl) side chain and a hydrophilic (phosphonomethyl aminomethyl) group linked on the 4 ′ position of amino acid 7 of the cyclic peptidic core.
192 
The mechanism of action of telavancin is similar to that of glycopeptides and involves binding to peptidoglycan precursors ( d-alanine- d-alanine of 600  mg/day (or 6  mg/kg/day). Of int erest, against E. faecalis , several 
patients were cured with teicoplanin monotherapy. In an experimental model of enterococcal endocarditis, teicoplanin was shown to be as effective as ampicillin and more effective than vancomycin. In this model the addition of an aminoglycoside to teicoplanin resulted in enhanced efficacy.
Teicoplanin has been shown to be effective in the treatment of 
susceptible organisms causing skin and soft tissue infections, lower respiratory tract infections, and catheter-related infections. Teicoplanin was equivalent to vancomycin in a study of neutropenic patients with persistent fever. Initial studies have shown similar response and relapse rates in patients with 
C. difficile  infection who received oral teicoplanin, 
metronidazole, or vancomycin; however, a recent prospective, nonran -
domized, observational study found a significantly lower rate of clinical failure and recurrence among 107 patients treated with oral teicoplanin 
versus 180 treated with oral vancomycin (100  mg and 200  mg every 12  
hours and 125  mg and 500  mg every 6 h ours, for noncomplicated and 
complicated infection, respectively).190
Intraperitoneal administration of teicoplanin has been successfully 
used for the treatment of CAPD-related peritonitis. Teicoplanin does not penetrate into the CSF; a small case series of CSF shunt-related infections treated with intraventricular teicoplanin have been reported, 
using doses of 10 to 20  mg every 24 t o 48 hours. Teicoplanin (400  mg 
IV dose at the time of anesthesia induction) is as effective as first-generation cephalosporins in the prevention of hip or knee implant-related infections, although it was not as effective as standard of care in patients undergoing cardiac and prosthetic vascular surgeries. In a retrospective study of 1896 patients undergoing hip or knee arthroplasty, 
the addition of one dose of teicoplanin (800  mg) to cefuro xime was 
able to significantly decrease the rate of surgical site infections at this center.
191 Teicoplanin, like vancomycin, is recommended as an option 
for prophylaxis of infective endocarditis in patients allergic to penicillin.
Overall, it appears that in countries where both antibiotics are 
available, teicoplanin is infrequently used in place of vancomycin, at least in the acute phase of the infection under treatment. The main reasons for this approach are that teicoplanin appears to have overall lower response rates when compared with vancomycin in patients with 
severe MRSA infections. As such, high doses (12  mg/kg/day) ar e recom -
mended for this type of infection, leading to possible toxicities and that teicoplanin is expensive.
In some situations teicoplanin could be considered for mild-to-
moderate enterococcal infections or, as outpatient therapy, to continue the treatment of certain MRSA infections (e.g., osteoarticular infections) 
O
O
OO
O
O O
P
OHOO
ClCl
OO
OO
OHO
HO
HO
HO
HOOH
OH
OH
OHOHNH
NH
N
HHNH
NNH
HN
HNNH
2
CO2HH3CH3C
H3CCH3 CH3
CH3
HN
NH
FIG. 30.3  Chemical structure of telavancin.  
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.391Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)Clinical Pharmacodynamics and 
Pharmacokinetics
Telavancin is supplied as a 250-mg or 750-mg single vial of a lyophilized 
powder that should be reconstituted with 15  mL and 45  mL, respec tively, 
of 5% dextrose, sterile water, or 0.9% sodium chloride, leading to a final 
concentration of 15  mg/mL. The app roved IV dose of telavancin is 
10 mg/kg da ily, w hich should be administered as a 1-hour infusion (see 
Table 30.1).200a This dosing schedule has resulted in peak plasma con -
centrations of 93.6 ±  14.2  µg/mL and an AUC of 666 ±  107 µg•hr/mL. 
The elimination half-life of telavancin ranges from 6.1 to 9.1 hours, and 
serum levels of telavancin are linear and predictable with minimal accumulation in patients with normal renal function. The percentage of drug bound to protein is relatively high (90%),
192,200b and the tissue 
distribution of telavancin is similar to that of vancomycin.192 The  
concentration of telavancin in blister fluid was 40% that of serum.200c 
In healthy adults telavancin concentrations in the epithelial lining fluid 
displayed a mean peak of 3.7  µg/mL an d a trough of 1  µg/mL, 8 hours 
and 24 hours after infusion, respectively.200d The concentration in alveolar 
macrophages was 45  µg/mL and 42  µg/mL at 12-hour and 24-hour 
time points, respectively. Using population pharmacokinetic modeling, it has been reported that telavancin concentrations achieved in lung tissue are higher than the MICs for MRSA isolates for the majority of the time interval between two doses.
200e
Dose adjustment of telavancin is required in the presence of renal 
dysfunction because clearance of the drug occurs via the kidneys. Thus 
the telavancin dose should be reduced to 7.5  mg/kg/day a nd 10  mg/kg 
every 48 hours in patients with creat inine clearances 30 to 50  mL/min 
and 10 to 30  mL/min, respec tively.200f These recommendations were 
validated using a population phar macokinetic model derived from 749 
subjects enrolled in clinical trials.200g Insufficient information has been 
collected to make dosing recommendations in patients with creatinine clearance <
10 mL/min, including t hose receiving hemodialysis. The 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) has advised against its use in patients with acute renal failure and with severe renal impairment.
201 Telavancin 
is coformulated with hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin to improve its solubility. The latter compound might accumulate in patients with renal dysfunction. Of note, no drug adjustment is required for subjects with mild and moderate (Child-Pugh class B) hepatic impairment, and no significant drug interactions are expected to occur with telavancin through hepatic metabolism.
Efficacy of Telavancin in Animal Models
The efficacy of telavancin has been evaluated in various animal models. In the neutropenic murine thigh infection and subcutaneous infection models, telavancin showed significant concentration-dependent decreases in the bacterial titers of S. aureus and compared fa vorably with vanco -
mycin and linezolid (MRSA) and nafcillin (MSSA).
200b In a rabbit model 
of S. aureus endocarditis, telavancin yielded a significantly greater 
reduction in CFUs per gram of vegetation than vancomycin against two MRSA strains.
201a In the same model, telavancin decreased bacterial 
counts in vegetations to a greater degree than vancomycin against t wo 
VISA isolates, although the difference was not statistically significant.201b 
In an experimental animal model of MRSA pneumonia, telavancin and vancomycin showed similar efficacies against MRSA strains with vancomycin MICs <
2 µg/mL, but telavancin produced significantly 
greater reduction than vancomycin in bac terial counts in lung tissue 
in three out of four VISA isolates tested.201c In the rabbit model of 
meningitis caused by a penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae  strain (tela -
vancin MIC, 0.06  µg/mL), telavancin exhibited a statistically significant 
reduction of CFUs in CSF compared with ceftriaxone plus vancomycin despite penetrating only 2% into CSF with inflamed meninges.
Adverse Reactions
Initial studies of telavancin infusions in healthy volunteers showed minor increases in the QTc interval; however, in advanced-phase clinical trials no significant differences in QTc interval were found compared with vancomycin.
148 Nonetheless, telavancin should be used with caution in 
patients taking medications that are known to cause QTc prolongation and avoided in patients with known long QTc interval, uncompensated heart failure, and severe left ventricular hypertrophy because these termini) at the outside of the bacterial cell, as they emerge from the cytoplasm. Of interest, the resulting inhibition of transglycosylase activity achieved by telavancin is about 10-fold greater on a molar basis than that observed with vancomycin.
196 However, a second mechanism of 
action is likely to play an important role in the bactericidal activity of the drug.
196a–196c This mechanism is appears to be related to the rapid 
and concentration-dependent disruption of bacterial cell membrane homeostasis (e.g., 
S. aureus ).196 The alterations in membrane physiology 
have been associated with leakage of important ions such as potas -
sium, alteration of adenosine triphosphate turnover, increased cell permeability, and eventually, cell death. Even though the interaction between telavancin and lipid II seems crucial for membrane depolariza -
tion, the nature of such interaction with this peptidoglycan precursor  
is unknown.
197
Antimicrobial Activity and Resistance
As mentioned earlier, potent, concentration-dependent bactericidal activity has been described with telavancin,
196b which also occurs in 
stationary phase of growth. The increased in vitro activity of telavancin observed since the inclusion of polysorbate-80 in its dilution MIC testing led to changes in the susceptibility breakpoints. Current breakpoints are as follows: S. aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , and Streptococcus agalactiae  
are all ≤
0.12 µg/mL; Streptococcus anginosus  group, ≤0.06 µg/mL; and 
Enterococcus faecalis  (vancomycin-susceptible strains), ≤0.25 µg/mL. 
EUCAST only has breakpoints available for S. aureus  (MIC ≤0.125  µg/
mL) and does not provide breakpoints for streptococci or enterococci due to insufficient data available (www.eucast.org/clinical_breakpoints).
The MIC
90 of telavancin for S. aureus  and coagulase-negative 
staphylococci isolates (independent of methicillin susceptibility) is 
0.06 µg/mL.198 Telavancin is very potent against S. pneumoniae  with all 
isolates inhibited at concentrations ≤0.03 µg/mL and displays comparable 
activity to that of penicillin against β-hemolytic streptococci, including 
S. pyogenes  and S. agalactiae .198 Overall, telavancin MICs are onefold 
to twofold higher for hVISA and VISA isolates, and those with higher telavancin MICs also display higher vancomycin MICs. Against VRSA strains, telavancin exhibits decreased bactericidal activity, which is likely due to the change in composition of peptidoglycan precurs ors in these 
strains ( d-alanine- d-lactate instead of d-alanine- d-alanine).
198a Telavancin 
displays good in vitro bactericidal activity against MSSA, MRSA, and VISA strains with MBCs within twofold of the MIC.
196b Telavancin has 
also been reported to retain bactericidal activity against daptomycin-nonsusceptible 
S. aureus  isolates, including those that also exhibit 
decreased susceptibility to vancomycin.198b
In a recent study with more than 10,000 strains from a worldwide 
collection of gram-positive cocci, telavancin inhibited all S. aureus  at 
a concentration ≤0.125  µg/mL.199 For S. aureus  isolates with a vancomycin 
MIC of 2  µg/mL, the MICs of telavancin were 0.06  µg/mL (lower than 
the susceptibility breakpoint), but these MICs were higher than those observed for isolates with vancomycin MIC <
2 µg/mL (0.03  µg/mL).199 
In the same study the MIC 90 of telavancin for coagulase-negative 
staphylococci was 0.06  µg/mL; for E. faecalis,  0.12  µg/mL; for 
vancomycin-susceptible E. faecium  (VSE) , 0.03  µg/mL; for S. pneumoniae,  
≤0.015  µg/mL; and for viridans-group streptococci and β-hemolytic 
streptococci, 0.03  µg/mL.
A variety of gram-posit ive anaerobes are susceptible to telavancin 
concentrations <2 µg/mL,200 including Actinomyces  spp., C. difficile  (and 
other Clostridium  spp.), Eubacterium  group, Lactobacillus  spp., Propi -
onibacterium  spp., Peptostreptococcus  spp., and Corynebacterium  spp. 
L. monocytogenes  and B. anthracis  are also highly susceptible to telavancin. 
Organisms that produce peptidoglycan precursors ending in d-Ala- d-Lac, 
including vancomycin-resistant enterococci, Pediococcus, Leuconostoc,  
and Lactobacillus  are considered nonsusceptible, with telavancin MICs 
≥2 µg/mL.200 Selection of telavancin resistance in vitro among gram-
positive isolates has been difficult to achieve, and clinical resistance has not been fully characterized. A recent patient appeared to have developed in vivo resistance to telavancin while on treatment with this compound for mediastinitis and persistent bacteremia caused by an MRSA/hVISA strain in the setting of a left ventricular assist device infection. Of note, 
the telavancin MIC increased to 1.5  µg/mL with concomitant increases 
in vancomycin and daptomycin MICs.194
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.392Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
from respiratory samples, of which >55% were MRSA. The observed 
cure rates for telavancin- and vancomycin-treated patients were 82.4% 
and 80.7%, respectively. Telavancin performed better than vancomycin in those with monomicrobial S. aureus pneumonia and in those infected 
with MRSA, although the difference only reached statistical significance for monomicrobial hospital-acquired pneumonia caused by S. aureus 
isolates, with a vancomycin MIC ≥
1 µg/mL.205
Other Clinical Uses
Telavancin was tested in a phase II randomized, double-blind trial of uncomplicated S. aureus bacteremia versus vancomycin or anti–
staphylococcal penicillins, showing no differences in efficacy at 84 days of follow-up.
206
Postmarketing use of telavancin has included 14 patients with 
refractory MRSA bacteremia (most of whom had endocarditis), 8 of whom were successfully treated.
207 Other reports of success include a 
case of pacemaker lead–related infective endocarditis due to a VISA/non–daptomycin-susceptible strain,
208 a few cases of MRSA osteomy-
elitis,209 and prosthetic joint infections.210
Dalbavancin
The in vitro activity of dalbavancin was initially assessed in the late 1990s. Clinical development was pursued thereafter based on its antibacte -
rial activity and favorable pharmacokinetic behavior. In 2014 in the United States and in 2015 in the European Union, dalbavancin was approved for treatment of adults with ABSSSI, initially as a two-weekly 
IV regimen of 1000 mg, then 500  mg 1 week l ater and more recently 
as a single 1500-mg dose regimen.
Structure and Mechanism of Action
Dalbavancin (Dalvance/Xydalba; Allergan; Dublin, Ireland) is a semi -
synthetic lipoglycopeptide derived from the semisynthetic derivative of the teicoplanin-like glycopeptide A40926, with a half-life of about 8.5 days and that allows once-weekly dosing. It is synthesized from a fermentation product of Nonomuraea  spp., and comprises five related 
active components.
Dalbavancin, as other lipoglycopeptides, forms a stable complex 
with the C-terminal d-alanyl- d-alanine of the pentapeptide in the nascent 
cell wall peptidoglycan; dalbavancin’s lipophilic side chain enhances its affinity to the target site. However, dalbavancin appears to adopt a closed conformation upon ligand binding, an interaction with cell wall precursors called noncooperative, which does not contribute to its own activity.
211,212 This differs from vancomycin and the other lipoglycopep -
tides, telavancin and oritavancin.
Antimicrobial Activity and Resistance
Dalbavancin shows in vitro activity against almost all significant gram-positive bacteria except those intrinsically resistant to glycopeptides, such as some Lactobacillus  spp. and those having the VanA phenotype 
of vancomycin-resistance. The current FDA breakpoints for susceptibility of dalbavancin are ≤
0.25 µg/mL for S. aureus (including MRSA), S. 
pyogenes, S. agalactiae, S. dysgalactiae, viridans group streptococci ( S. 
anginosus  group only), and E. faecalis  (vancomycin-susceptible isolates 
only). The breakpoint for these microorganisms determined by the EUCAST is one dilution lower ( ≤
0.125  µg/mL).
Against susceptible species, dalbavancin displays significantly greater 
potency than vancomycin. Despite this, the in vitro activity of dalbavancin has been characterized as slowly bactericidal against 
S. aureus  and S. pyo-
genes ,213 similar to the effect of vancomycin. Against hVISA isolates, dal -
bavancin displayed bacteriostatic activity.214 For VRE, dalbavancin lacks 
useful activity against VanA-type strains and appears to be active against VanB type (presumably due to lack of induction of resistance, similar to teicoplanin). However, mutants that express VanB resistance constitutively are readily selected during drug exposure (as seen with teicoplanin). Dal -
bavancin is also active in vitro against the VanC-type enterococci (
E. gal-
linarum  and E. casseliflavus ). The dalbavancin MIC 90 for VRE type A is 
>4 µg/mL and for VanB and VanC is between ≤0.06 µg/mL and 2  µg/mL.215
Against more than 60,000 S. aureus  isolates collected from the United 
States and Europe in a surveillance program over a decade (2002–12), dalbavancin demonstrated activity with MIC
90 of 0.06 g/mL against strains patients were excluded from the clinical trials. A pooled analysis of all side effects in the phase II and phase III ABSSSI and hospital-acquired pneumonia trials showed that nausea, vomiting, taste disturbance, chills, and creatinine elevation were significantly more fr equent in the telavancin 
group than in the comparator arm of the trials.
201d The most common 
adverse events that led to discontinuation of telavancin were nausea, vomiting, and renal dysfunction.
148,202 Nephrotoxicity was reported to 
be greater in patients with concomitant medications that might affect kidney function (e.g., diuretics, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors) and in those older than 65 years. The rate of significant creatinine increase (>50% increase from baseline and a maximum value >
1.5 mg/dL) was significantly higher 
in patients receiving telavancin than those treated with vancomycin, both in the ABSSSI trials (6% vs. 2%, respectively)
202 and in the hospital-
acquired pneumonia trials (16% vs. 10%, respectively).148 In a retrospec -
tive analysis of the use of telavancin postmarketing, creatinine increase was found in 33% of the patients after a median of 9 days of treatment, although these patients had different comorbidities, were receiving other potentially nephrotoxic a gents, and telavancin was prescribed for 
nonapproved indications.
202a The renal toxicity, the most worrisome 
telavancin side effect, appears to be reversible, but cautious monitoring is required. Of interest, a recent updated meta-analysis of the published clinical data available from the telavancin trials showed no significant difference in clinical and microbiologic outcomes compared with other therapies. However, patients receiving telavancin had significantly higher rates of serum creatinine increases and hypokalemia.
203 Moreover, in 
the trials of hospital-associated pneumonia, lower survival rates (all-cause mortality at day 28) were observed among patients treated with telavancin than those receiving vancomycin when the patient had baseline moderate-to-severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≤
50 mL/min) (59% 
and 70%, respectively; difference 11%; 95% CI, −19.9% to −1.3%).204
Telavancin has been associated with laboratory interference in 
quantification of urine protein (when tested by reagent strip and dye methods), prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), activated clotting time, and factor Xa coagulation tests. Because these effects appear to be minimal at drug trough, it is recom -
mended to draw blood for these tests before the next dose of telavancin. As a derivative of vancomycin, telavancin has been associated with infusion-related reactions, such as red man syndrome–like reaction, flushing, pruritus, and rash. Slowing the infusion rate tends to mitigate these reactions.
There are no available data on the use of telavancin in pregnant 
women, lactating mothers, or pediatric patients. Telavancin is considered pregnancy drug class C and should be avoided in pregnant women unless the potential benefits outweigh the fetal risks. Increased rates of limb and digit malformations were seen in three animal species exposed to telavancin. As many other antibiotics, diarrhea caused by 
C. difficile  
occurred in patients receiving telavancin.
Clinical Uses
Skin and Soft Tissue Infections
Telavancin is currently approved for the treatment of ABSSSI caused 
by gram-positive pathogens. Two phase II studies and a large pha se III 
study with telavancin in patients with ABSSSI have been published.202,204a ,204b 
The first phase II study used a daily dose of 7.5  mg/kg, but t hereafter 
the dose was 10  mg/kg/day. MRSA wa s the most common isolated 
pathogen. The cure rates for telavancin and vancomycin were 88.3% and 87.1% and 90.6% and 86.4% in the clinically evaluable patient group and those infected with MRSA, respectively.
202 A meta-analysis of the 
ABSSSI clinical trials found that, if the infected organism was MRSA, the microbiologic eradication rate was more favora ble in those receiving 
telavancin than those treated with vancomycin.
201d However, among 
patients with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min), 
decreased efficacy was seen in the telavancin group.
Hospital-Acquired Pneumonia
Telavancin was noninferior to vancomycin (1  g every 12 hours) in two 
large randomized trials of hospital-acquired pneumonia caused by gram-positive pathogens.
148 Ninety percent of the patients in the 
microbiologic evaluable population had an S. aureus strain isolated 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.393Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telav ancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)Dalbavancin is supplied in 500-mg powder vials that should be 
reconstituted with 25  mL sterile wa ter or 5% dextrose, to be further 
diluted in 5% dextrose to a final dalbavancin concentration of 1 to 
5 mg/mL. The time from reconstitution to administration should be 
<48 hours and can be stored either at 2°C to 8°C or at 20°C to 25°C. 
The IV infusion time is 30 minutes (more rapid infusions can cause red man syndrome–type of reactions), and it should not be coadmin -
istered with other medications or saline-containing infusions; lines should be cleared with 5% dextrose solution before and after use.
225
Adverse Reactions
In phase III clinical trials that compared the two-dose regimen of 
dalbavancin (1000 mg on day 1 and 500  mg on day 8) w ith vancomycin, 
followed by oral linezolid, the most common adverse events in the dalbavancin arm were nausea (2.5%), diarrhea (0.8%), and pruritus (0.6%); these latter two were significantly less frequent than in the comparator arm. Reactions associated with infusion were seen in 1.4% of the patients in the dalbavancin group, although the majority of them occurred during the placebo infusions required in the trial.
226
Hypersensitivity and skin reactions have been described, and cross-
reactions might occur in patients with prior history of glycopeptide allergy. 
C. difficile –associated diarrhea has been described in patients 
receiving dalbavancin. Increases in alanine transaminase (ALT) levels have been reported in 0.8% of dalbavancin-treated patients compared with 0.2% of those in the comparator arm, although most of these patients had hepatic underlying conditions; these increased ALT levels 
were reversible. Dalbavancin in single doses of 1000  mg or 1500  mg 
showed no significant effect on heart rate, PR, QRS, and QTc intervals in a thorough study including 200 volunteers.
227
Dalbavancin is classified as pregnancy category C because delayed 
fetal maturation was observed in rats receiving high doses of this compound, and there are no data about pregnant women. The excretion of dalbavancin in human milk has not been addressed, and the risk of drug-drug interactions appears minimal because it does not interfere with CYP450 isoenzymes or P-glycoprotein.
Clinical Uses
Dalbavancin showed similar outcomes as the comparator arm in phase II trials
228 of adults with ABSSSI. These studies were followed by phase 
III double-blind randomized trials that confirmed the noninferiority of 
dalbavancin administered as 1000 mg infused on day 1, followed by 500  mg 
vancomycin on day 8, with the option of oral linezolid on day 3. These studies led to the approval by the FDA and EMA of dalbavancin for ABSSSI caused by various susceptible organisms. More recently a 1500-mg single-dose of dalbavancin infused in 30 minutes showed similar outcome to the two-dose regimen in adults with ABSSSI, with a similar rate of adverse events,
229 leading to the FDA and EMA approval of this new dosing. A 
two-dose regimen of dalbavancin is currently under study in a phase III open-label and randomized trial (identifier NCT02814916) of pediatric patients (3 months–17 years of age) with ABSSSI compared with standard of care. Dalbavancin, administered as two 1500-mg weekly doses, showed good clinical outcomes and no serious related adverse events in a recently published, open-label, phase II clinical tr ial, of patients with chronic 
osteomyelitis caused by gram-positives.
229a Of concern, a recent failure 
of dalbavancin has been reported in a pregnant patient with MRSA right-sided endocarditis treated with this drug, having relapsed with a VISA and lipoglycopeptide nonsusceptible isolate.
230 More clinical data on the 
potential use of dalbavancin in staphylococci bacteremia and/or endo -
carditis and osteomyelitis would be particularly interesting, considering its intrinsic antibacterial activity and its favorable pharmacokinetic profile that allows weekly administration.
Oritavancin
Oritavancin was selected for clinical development in 1994 based on its in vitro activity and its advantageous dosing profile; however, its develop -
ment was slow due to ownership transference among pharmaceutical companies and the presence of an in vitro phenomenon that overestimated the MICs. Oritavancin finally was granted approval for use in adults with ABSSSI caused by susceptible gram-positive organisms in the United States and Europe in 2014 and 2015, respectively.including those nonsusceptible to daptomycin, linezolid, and tigecycline.
216 
Analyzing strains from pediatric patients with skin and skin structure infections in the United States (2014–15), dalbavancin also displayed similar in vitro activity against 
S. aureus  (MRSA and MSSA strains) (MIC 90, 
0.06 µg/mL), coagulase negative staphylococci (MIC 90, 0.06  µg/mL), and 
β-hemolytic streptococci (MIC 90, 0.03  µg/mL).217
Dalbavancin shows good in vitro activity against many anaerobic 
gram-positive bacteria, including most Clostridia  spp. (except Clostridium 
clostridioforme ), Propionibacterium  spp., Peptostreptococcus  spp., Eubac -
terium  spp., and Actinomyces  spp.; some species of Lactobacillus  displayed 
MICs >32 µg/mL.218 Dalbavancin is also active against other gram-positive 
organisms, such as Bacillus  spp., Corynebacterium  spp., and Micrococcus  
spp. Selection of dalbavancin nonsusceptible variants from fully susceptible isolates in vitro has not been successful; however, a recent case report described the emergence of a dalbavancin-nonsusceptible VISA strain isolated from a patient who had received dalbavancin and vancomycin treatment for a catheter-related MRSA bacteremia.
195
Clinical Pharmacodynamics and 
Pharmacokinetics
The current approved doses of dalbavancin in patients with normal 
renal function (creatinine clearance ≥30 mL/min) or on regul ar hemo -
dialysis include a single administration of 1500 mg or 1000  mg, fo llowed 
by 500  mg 1 week later, infused in 30 minutes for adults with ABSSSI. 
When IV dalbavancin was given as 1000  mg on day 1, f ollowed by 
500 mg weekly for 7 weeks in healthy volunteers, there was no accumula -
tion, and mean serum concentrations >30 µg/mL from day 8 to 50 were 
found. The mean peak serum concentration (C max) after a dose of 1000 
and 1500  mg is 287  µg/mL and 423  µg/mL, respectively; the terminal 
half-life of dalbavancin is 8 to 9 days, with a high volume of distribution (between 9 and 15 L), suggesting extravascular distribution. The plasma protein binding of dalbavancin is approximately 93%, mainly to albumin. A mean of 45% is excreted in urine (33% unchanged and 12% as the metabolite hydroxyl-dalbavancin) and 20% in feces.
The penetration of dalbavancin in skin blister fluid is ≈60%, with a 
mean concentration ≈
30 µg/mL by day 7, following a dose of 1000  mg.219 
The cortical bone, synovial tissue, skin, and plasma concentrations at 
2 weeks after a single dose of 1000  mg of dal bavancin were 4.1  µg/g, 
15.9 µg/g, 13.8  µg/g, and 15.3  µg/mL, respectively.220 Based on a popula -
tion pharmacokinetic modeling, two 1500-mg IV infusions given 1 week apart have been proposed for 6 to 8 weeks as a potential treatment of 
S. aureus  osteomyelitis because this would provide free dalbavancin 
exposure higher than the S. aureus  MIC 90 for the treatment period.220
Even though dalbavancin is not approved for use in children, a 
model based on plasma concentrations from 43 pediatric patients (3 months–11 years of age), to simulate one-dose and two-dose adult regimens, respectively, yielded the following eventual dosing recom -
mendations: from 6 to <
18 years of age: 18  mg/kg (1500  mg maximum), 
and 12  mg/kg (up to 1000  mg) on day 1 a nd 6 mg/kg (500  mg maximum) 
on day 8; and from 3 months to <6 years of age: 22.5  mg/kg (up t o 
1500  mg), and 15  mg/kg (1000  mg maximum) an d 7.5  mg/kg (500  mg 
maximum) on day 8.221 The pharmacokinetic parameters of dalbavancin 
was similar to those described in adults among 10 healthy adolescents 
(between 12 and 17 years of age) receiving 1000  mg (or 15  mg/kg if 
the participant weighed <60 kg) infused in 30 minutes.222
The pharmacodynamic parameter that best describes the activity of 
dalbavancin is the 24-hour AUC/MIC. The efficacy of this compound was dose dependent in animal models against 
S. aureus  and pneumococci; 
for the latter the drug exposure for similar efficacy was much lower than for 
S. aureus . The estimated target 24-hour AUC/MIC for S. aureus  
was between 100 and 300.223
Dalbavancin clearance is affected in patients with severe renal 
impairment.224 Therefore doses should be adjusted in patients not on 
hemodialysis with a creatinine clearance <30 mL/min; in this case, the 
dose of dalbavancin should be 1125  mg as a single dose or 750  mg on 
day 1, followed by 375  mg on day 8 in t he two-dose regimen. Patients 
on hemodialysis can receive the regular dose without considering the timing of dialysis. No need for dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic insufficiency, even though drug exposure has been 27% to 36% lower in those with severe liver impairment.
224
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (T elavancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)
393.e1
Update: Oritavancin in Osteomyelitis
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.394Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases
Oritavancin displays a rapid bactericidal and concentration-dependent 
activity against a wide variety of gram-positive organisms. In the 
neutropenic murine thigh infection model using S. aureus  isolates, the 
activity is best predicted by the C max:MIC ratio and the AUC/MIC ratio.242 
It has also been observed that a greater bactericidal effect is seen when a single full dose of oritavancin is given than when it is administered in fractioned doses. Oritavancin also exhibits concentration-dependent bactericidal activity against stationary phase and biofilm culture of 
S. 
aureus  in vitro.243
Oritavancin is supplied in 400-mg vials that should be reconstituted 
and further diluted in dextrose 5% (1000  mL) to a concent ration of 
1.2 mg/mL to be infused over 3 hours. This compound is not compatible 
with normal saline and should only be diluted in dextrose 5%.
Adverse Reactions and Drug Interactions
Among the ABSSSI phase III trials,244,245 the most common side 
effects were headache, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea; rates of dis -
continuation were not different from the comparator arm. Transient and mild ALT elevations were also observed. Infusions reactions, such as flushing and pruritus, may occur but less frequently than with vancomycin and also resolve after slowing the infusion rate. Hypersensitivity reactions were unusual (<1.5%), but some evidence suggests they may develop more frequently in those patients with prior reactions to glycopeptides. In clinical trials the median duration of the hypersensitivity reactions was 2.4 days. Oritavancin is classified as pregnancy category C, and its use in nursing mothers has not  
been studied.
Oritavancin, unlike other lipoglycopeptides, has a potential for 
drug-drug interaction through the inhibition of several cytochrome P450 enzymes. In this regard, a recent study showed no effect of ori -
tavancin on S-warfarin C
max or AUC, although patients receiving these 
drugs concomitantly should still be observed for possible bleeding.246 
In addition, as with telavancin, oritavancin can affect laboratory phospholipid-dependent coagulation tests, such as PT/international normalized ratio (INR) and aPTT, whereas anti-FXa assay and thrombin time remain unaffected. The duration of the interference with these tests depends on the commercial reagents used. The maximum time to resolution of these test abnormalities has been 12 hours for PT/INR and 120 hours for aPTT; hence the use of IV unfractionated heparin sodium is contraindicated for 5 days after the administration of orita -
vancin. Surprisingly, about 30% of the healthy subjects receiving ori -
tavancin experienced increased levels of D dimer that returned to normal in up to 72 hours.
247 In patients with mild to moderate liver or renal 
impairment, adjustment of oritavancin dosage is not required, although its use in those with severe hepatic or renal insufficiency has not been evaluated.
Clinical Uses
Oritavancin showed evidence of efficacy in a phase II trial of patients with complicated skin and soft tissue infections
248 and in another study 
of patients with S. aureus bacteremia administered in four different daily doses.
249 In two identical phase III randomized trials of adult 
patients with ABSSSI, oritavancin, as a single-dose of 1200  mg, was 
noninferior to 7 to 10 days of vancomycin.244,245 These trials enrolled 
1987 patients, and the primary end point was cessation (or reduction) of spread of baseline skin lesion, absence of fever, and no need for other antibiotics after 48 to 72 hours of therapy initiation. In both trials MRSA was found in ≈20% of all patients and in ≈0% of those with a positive culture. With these results the FDA approved this agent in 2014 for the treatment of adult patients with ABSSSI caused by susceptible isolates of the following gram-positive microorganisms: S. aureus (including MRSA), S. pyogenes, S. agalactiae, S. dysgalactiae, S. anginosus  group, 
and E. faecalis  (vancomycin-susceptible isolates only). Oritavancin is 
not currently approved in the pediatric population, although it is being evaluated in an ABSSSI clinical trial of children age 3 months to 18 years (clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT02134301). Based on its significant in vitro activity and its ease of administration, studies of oritavancin for infections such as bacteremia, endocarditis, and osteomyelitis caused by susceptible gram-positive organisms, including VRE, MRSA, VISA, hVISA, and VRSA, seem warranted.Structure and Mechanism of Action
Oritavancin (Orbactiv) is a semisynthetic derivative of the lipoglyco -
peptide chloroeremomycin structurally similar to vancomycin, with the addition of an aminated sugar (4-epi-vancosamine) and a hydrophobic side chain, responsible for the amphipathic property of the drug and the membrane anchoring characteristic, also documented for telavancin. Oritavancin has three known mechanisms of action, including inhibiting transglycosylation, inhibiting transpeptidation, and disrupting the cell membrane.
231 First, like vancomycin, oritavancin binds to the d-alanyl-
d-alanine peptidoglycan termini of lipid II, inhibiting the glycan chain 
extension (transglycosylation). Second, probably through its lipophilic side chain, oritavancin also interacts at another level of the pentapeptide terminus of lipid II (the pentaglycyl bridge and the d-iso-glutamine 
residue in position 2),
232 allowing a significant inhibition of the trans-
peptidase activity; this might explain its activity against vancomycin-resistant organisms. And third, oritavancin was shown to produce membrane depolarization and permeabilization, which appears inde -
pendent of cellular growth and division.
Antimicrobial Activity and Resistance
Oritavancin has in vitro activity against staphylococci (including MRSA), streptococci, and enterococci (including VRE).
233,234 As with other 
lipoglycopeptides, the CLSI recommends performing oritavancin MIC testing using 0.002% polysorbate-80, to inhibit the adherence of the compound to test tube walls. The oritavancin CLSI and EUCAST breakpoints for susceptibility against staphylococci, streptococci, and VSE (only CLSI) are ≤
0.12 µg/mL, ≤0.25 µg/mL, and ≤ 0.12 µg/mL, 
respectively.
Oritavancin has low MIC 90 values against vancomycin-susceptible 
and VanB-mediated vancomycin-resistant strains, whereas the MICs for VanA strains tend to be slightly higher. For example, oritavancin MIC
90 against enterococcal isolates from Europe and the United States, 
collected between 2011 and 2013, were 0.06  µg/mL and 0.12  µg/
mL for vancomycin-susceptible E. faecalis  and VanA E. faecium , 
respectively.235 In addition, oritavancin exhibited in vitro bactericidal 
activity for both VRE and VSE in time-kill experiments; however, an increased concentration was required for bactericidal activity  
against VRE.
236,237
Oritavancin also showed good in vitro activity against 1008 S. aureus  
clinical isolates from patients with invasive infections in the United States between 2013 and 2014, with an MIC
90 of 0.06  µg/mL.238 Orita -
vancin also displays in vitro activity against C. difficile , even more potent 
than that of vancomycin against most of the isolates.
In vitro studies including time-kill curves have shown a synergistic 
activity of oritavancin when combined with cefazolin and with nafcillin against MRSA strains, possibly secondary to the seesaw effect in which the glycopeptide (and lipopeptide) MICs are inversely proportional to the β-lactam MICs. The combination of oritavancin with ceftaroline 
was also synergistic against MRSA and was the most effective combination against the MRSA, daptomycin-nonsusceptible MRSA, and hVISA isolates tested. In the same study the synergistic effect of the combination of oritavancin with ampicillin, ertapenem, and ceftaroline against vancomycin-resistant 
E. faecalis  and E. faecium  isolates was limited and 
strain dependent.239
Clinical Pharmacokinetics and 
Pharmacodynamics
Oritavancin is administered as a single dose of 1200 mg over 3 hours, 
after which an average peak of 138  mg/L in serum is o btained.240 
Oritavancin is widely distributed, fitting a dose-linear, three-compartment 
model with a high volume of distribution of almost 100  L and a slow 
release from tissue absorption sites. This increased volume of distribution, 
together with high protein binding (85%–90%), may explain, in part, the prolonged terminal half-life of about 240 hours, supporting the one-time dosing strategy for ABSSSI.
240 Oritavancin accumulates 
intracellularly in the liver, kidneys, spleen, lymphoid tissue, and lungs, from where it is subsequently released; only trace amounts of the administered dose are found in urine and feces. An adequate penetration of oritavancin into skin blister fluid of approximately 19% of the plasma concentration has been reported.
241
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.395Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and T eicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telavancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)its current use is probably jeopardized in view of the lower efficacy 
observed in patients with moderate-to-severe renal failure and its higher rate of creatinine increase than the comparator in the ABSSI and hospital-acquired pneumonia trials. Due to its favorable pharmacokinetic properties, dalbavancin and oritavancin appear as attractive agents for the treatment of ABSSI caused by gram-positive pathogens, allowing the administration of only a single dose. This strategy might be par -
ticularly useful to avoid hospitalization of a significant proportion of patients with ABSSI; however, the cost of these compounds might be a limitation for more extensive use. Further efficacy studies on drug-resistant gram-positive infections are expected.CONCLUSIONS
Among the drugs reviewed in this chapter, vancomycin is still the most important option for severe skin infections requiring hospitalization and the usual choice for parenteral therapy for osteomyelitis, bacteremia, and endocarditis caused by MRSA. This view reflects the long experience with and confidence in its use, along with its relatively low cost; however, the recommendation of targeting higher serum levels in severe disease has reduced the therapeutic window. Telavancin has been approved for the treatment of ABSSI and hospital-acquired pneumonia caused by gram-positive pathogens when other agents are unsuitable; however, 
Key References
The complete reference list is available online at Expert Consult.
9. Weiner LM, Webb AK, Limbago B, et  al . 
Antimicrobial-resistant pathogens associated with 
healthcare-associated infections: summary of data reported to the National Healthcare Safety Network at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011-2014. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 2016;37:1288–1301.
10.
 Hiramatsu K. Vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus : a new model of antibiotic resistance. Lancet Infect 
Dis. 2001;1:147–155.
24. Wootton M, Howe RA, Hillman R, et  al . A modified 
population analysis profile (PAP) method to detect hetero-resistance to vancomycin in Staphylococcus aureus  
in a UK hospital. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2001;47:399–403.
25.
 Howden BP , Davies JK, Johnson PD, et  al . Reduced 
vancomycin susceptibility in Staphylococcus aureus, 
including vancomycin-intermediate and heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate strains: resistance mechanisms, laboratory detection, and clinical implications. Clin 
Microbiol Rev . 2010;23:99–139.
32.
 Sakoulas G, Moise-Broder PA, Schentag J, et  al . 
Relationship of MIC and bactericidal activity to efficacy of vancomycin for treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. J Clin Microbiol. 
2004;42:2398–2402.
34.
 Hidayat LK, Hsu DI, Quist R, et  al . High-dose 
vancomycin therapy for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  infections: efficacy and toxicity. 
Arch Intern Med. 2006;166:2138–2144.
38.
 van Hal SJ, Lodise TP , Paterson DL. The clinical 
significance of vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration in Staphylococcus aureus  infections: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis. Clin Infect Dis. 
2012;54:755–771.
43.
 Liu C, Bayer A, Cosgrove SE, et  al . Clinical practice 
guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America for the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  infections in adults and children. Clin Infect Dis. 
2011;52:e18–e55.
44.
 Sievert DM, Rudrik JT, Patel JB, et  al . 
Vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in the United 
States, 2002-2006. Clin Infect Dis. 2008;46:668–674.
48. Perichon B, Courvalin P . VanA-type vancomycin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2009;53:4580–4587.
53. Rybak MJ. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
properties of vancomycin. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42(suppl 
1):S35–S39.
55. Moise-Broder PA, Forrest A, Birmingham MC, et  al . 
Pharmacodynamics of vancomycin and other antimicrobials in patients with Staphylococcus aureus  
lower respiratory tract infections. Clin Pharmacokinet . 
2004;43:925–942.
56.
 Rybak M, Lomaestro B, Rotschafer JC, et  al . Therapeutic 
monitoring of vancomycin in adult patients: a consensus review of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, the Infectious Diseases Society of America, and the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists. Am J 
Health Syst Pharm. 2009;66:82–98.
58.
 Kullar R, Davis SL, Levine DP , et  al . Impact of 
vancomycin exposure on outcomes in patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: 
support for consensus guidelines suggested targets. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2011;52:975–981.
64. Mohr JF , Murray BE. Point: vancomycin is not obsolete 
for the treatment of infection caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Clin Infect 
Dis. 2007;44:1536–1542.
67.
 Vesga O, Agudelo M, Salazar BE, et  al . Generic 
vancomycin products fail in vivo despite being pharmaceutical equivalents of the innovator. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2010;54:3271–3279.
92.
 Li PK, Szeto CC, Piraino B, et  al . ISPD Peritonitis 
recommendations: 2016 update on prevention and treatment. Perit Dial Int. 2016;36:481–508.
95.
 Tunkel AR, Hasbun R, Bhimraj A, et  al . 2017 Infectious 
Diseases Society of America’s clinical practice guidelines for healthcare-associated ventriculitis and meningitis. Clin Infect Dis. 2017;64:e34–e65.
100.
 Zelenitsky SA, Ariano RE, McCrae ML, et  al . Initial 
vancomycin dosing protocol to achieve therapeutic serum concentrations in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2012;55:527–533.
108.
 Elyasi S, Khalili H, Dashti-Khavidaki S, et  al . 
Vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity: mechanism, incidence, risk factors and special populations: a literature review. Eur J Clin Pharmacol . 
2012;68:1243–1255.
113.
 Bosso JA, Nappi J, Rudisill C, et  al . Relationship between 
vancomycin trough concentrations and nephrotoxicity: a prospective multicenter trial. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2011;55:5475–5479.
114.
 Lodise TP , Lomaestro B, Graves J, et  al . Larger 
vancomycin doses (at least four grams per day) are associated with an increased incidence of nephrotoxicity. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2008;52:1330–1336.
116.
 Cosgrove SE, Vigliani GA, Fowler VG Jr, et  al . Initial 
low-dose gentamicin for Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia and endocarditis is nephrotoxic. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2009;48:713–721.
126. Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF , et  al . Practice 
guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft-tissue infections. Clin Infect Dis. 2005;41:1373–1406.
129.
 Fowler VG Jr, Boucher HW , Corey GR, et  al . Daptomycin 
versus standard therapy for bacteremia and endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus . N Engl J Med . 
2006;355:653–665.
132.
 Lodise TP , Graves J, Evans A, et  al . Relationship between 
vancomycin MIC and failure among patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia 
treated with vancomycin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2008;52:3315–3320.
138.
 Murray BE. The life and times of the Enterococcus . Clin 
Microbiol Rev . 1990;3:46–65.
142. Tunkel AR, Hartman BJ, Kaplan SL, et  al . Practice 
guidelines for the management of bacterial meningitis. Clin Infect Dis. 2004;39:1267–1284.
146.
 Wunderink RG, Niederman MS, Kollef MH, et  al . 
Linezolid in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
nosocomial pneumonia: a randomized, controlled study. Clin Infect Dis. 2012;54:621–629.
148.
 Rubinstein E, Lalani T, Corey GR, et  al . Telavancin versus 
vancomycin for hospital-acquired pneumonia due to gram-positive pathogens. Clin Infect Dis. 2011;52: 
31–40.154.
 Cohen SH, Gerding DN, Johnson S, et  al . Clinical 
practice guidelines for Clostridium difficile  infection in 
adults: 2010 update by the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA). Infect Control Hosp 
Epidemiol . 2010;31:431–455.
159.
 Bratzler DW , Dellinger EP , Olsen KM, et  al . Clinical 
practice guidelines for antimicrobial prophylaxis in surgery. Am J Health Syst Pharm . 2013;70:195–283.
166.
 Mermel LA, Allon M, Bouza E, et  al . Clinical practice 
guidelines for the diagnosis and management of intravascular catheter-related infection: 2009 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2009;49:1–45.
171.
 Wilson AP , Gruneberg RN, Neu HC. A critical review of 
the dosage of teicoplanin in Europe and the USA. Int J 
Antimicrob Agents. 1994;4(suppl 1):S1–S30.
182. Chang HJ, Hsu PC, Y ang CC, et  al . Influence of 
teicoplanin MICs on treatment outcomes among patients with teicoplanin-treated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia: a hospital-based 
retrospective study. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2012;67:736–741.
192.
 Van Bambeke F . Glycopeptides in clinical development: 
pharmacological profile and clinical perspectives. Curr 
Opin Pharmacol . 2004;4:471–478.
196. Higgins DL, Chang R, Debabov DV , et  al . Telavancin, a 
multifunctional lipoglycopeptide, disrupts both cell wall synthesis and cell membrane integrity in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2005;49:1127–1134.
197.
 Lunde CS, Hartouni SR, Janc JW , et  al . Telavancin 
disrupts the functional integrity of the bacterial membrane through targeted interaction with the cell wall precursor lipid II. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2009;53:3375–3383.
202.
 Stryjewski ME, Graham DR, Wilson SE, et  al . Telavancin 
versus vancomycin for the treatment of complicated skin and skin-structure infections caused by gram-positive organisms. Clin Infect Dis. 2008;46:1683–1693.
228.
 Jauregui LE, Babazadeh S, Seltzer E, et  al . Randomized, 
double-blind comparison of once-weekly dalbavancin versus twice-daily linezolid therapy for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2005;41:1407–1415.
226.
 Boucher HW , Wilcox M, Talbot GH, et  al . Once-weekly 
dalbavancin versus daily conventional therapy for skin infection. N Engl J Med . 2014;370:2169–2179.
231.
 Zhanel GG, Schweizer F , Karlowsky JA. Oritavancin: 
mechanism of action. Clin Infect Dis. 2012;54(suppl 
3):S214–S219.
233. Morrissey I, Seifert H, Canton R, et  al . Activity of 
oritavancin against methicillin-resistant staphylococci, vancomycin-resistant enterococci and β-haemolytic 
streptococci collected from western European countries in 2011. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2013;68:164–167.
234.
 Mendes RE, Farrell DJ, Sader HS, et  al . Activity of 
oritavancin against gram-positive clinical isolates responsible for documented skin and soft-tissue infections in European and US hospitals (2010-13).  
J Antimicrob Chemother. 2015;70:498–504.
244.
 Corey GR, Kabler H, Mehra P , et  al . Single-dose 
oritavancin in the treatment of acute bacterial skin infections. N Engl J Med . 2014;370:2180–2190.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (T elavancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)
395.e1
Henry Redel, MD
Chief, Infectious Diseases, Saint Peter’s University Hospital, Clinical Instructor, 
Department of Medicine, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey
Martin Blaser, MD
Henry Rutgers Chair of the Human Microbiome, Professor of Medicine and Microbiology—RWJMS, Director, Center for Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey
July 1, 2020
Because of its long half-life, oritavancin can be used as a single injection in 
patients who have difficulties with repetitive dosing regimens. Although randomized 
clinical trials are lacking, real world data on the safety and efficacy of oritavancin is accumulating.
1,2 These two small case series include a total of 17 patients with 
chronic osteomyelitis of whom 16 had clinical cure after 1-10 doses of oritavancin (usually 1-2 doses). These results are promising, but randomized studies are warranted.
References
1. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30537532.
2. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31844635.Oritavancin in OsteomyelitisUPDATE
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.395.e2
Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious DiseasesReferences
1. Kirst HA, Thompson DG, Nicas TI. Historical yearly 
usage of vancomycin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1998;42:1303–1304.
2. Gladsone BP , et  a l. Antimicrobial resistance rates in 
gram-positive bacteria do not drive glycopeptides use. 
PLoS ONE. 2017;12:e0181358.
3. Lipsky BA, Baker CA, McDonald LL, et  a l. Improving the 
appropriateness of vancomycin use by sequential interventions. Am J Infect Control . 1999;27:84–91.
4. Fraser TG, Stosor V , Wang Q, et  a l. Vancomycin and 
home health care. Emerg Infect Dis. 2005;11:1558– 
1564.
5. Siebert WT, Moreland N, Williams TW Jr. Synergy of 
vancomycin plus cefazolin or cephalothin against methicillin-resistance Staphylococcus epidermidis . J Infect 
Dis. 1979;139:452–457.
6. Hiramatsu K, Hanaki H, Ino T, et  a l. Methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus  clinical strain with reduced 
vancomycin susceptibility. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
1997;40:135–136.
7. Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute. CLSI 
document M100-S22. Supplement. Wayne, PA: CLSI; 2012.
8. Galloway-Pena J, Roh JH, Latorre M, et  a l. Genomic and 
SNP analyses demonstrate a distant separation of the hospital and community-associated clades of Enterococcus 
faecium . PLoS ONE. 2012;7:e30187.
9.
 Weiner LM, Webb AK, Limbago B, et  a l. Antimicrobial-
resistant pathogens associated with healthcare-associated infections: summary of data reported to the National Healthcare Safety Network at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011-2014. Infect Control Hosp 
Epidemiol . 2016;37:1288–1301.
10.
 Hiramatsu K. Vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus: a new model of antibiotic resistance. Lancet Infect 
Dis. 2001;1:147–155.
11. Leonard SN. Synergy between vancomycin and nafcillin 
against Staphylococcus aureus  in an in vitro 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model. PLoS ONE. 
2012;7:e42103.
12. Hagihara M, Wiskirchen DE, Kuti JL, et  a l. In vitro 
pharmacodynamics of vancomycin and cefazolin alone and in combination against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2012;56:202–207.
13. Domenech A, Ribes S, Cabellos C, et  a l. Experimental 
study on the efficacy of combinations of glycopeptides and beta-lactams against Staphylococcus aureus  with 
reduced susceptibility to glycopeptides. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2005;56:709–716.
14. Fernandez J, Abbanat D, Shang W , et  a l. Synergistic 
activity of ceftobiprole and vancomycin in a rat model of infective endocarditis caused by methicillin-resistant and glycopeptide-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2012;56:1476–1484.
15. Zhang S, Sun X, Chang W , et  a l. Systematic review and 
meta-analysis of the epidemiology of vancomycin-intermediate and heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  isolates. PLoS ONE. 
2015;10:e0136082.
16. Richter SS, Satola SW , Crispell EK, et  a l. Detection of 
Staphylococcus aureus  isolates with heterogeneous 
intermediate-level resistance to vancomycin in the United States. J Clin Microbiol. 2011;49:4203–4207.
17. Cui L, Neoh HM, Shoji M, et  a l. Contribution of vraSR 
and graSR point mutations to vancomycin resistance in vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2009;53:1231–1234.
18. Shoji M, Cui L, Iizuka R, et  a l. walK and clpP mutations 
confer reduced vancomycin susceptibility in Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2011;55:3870–3881.
19. Howden BP , McEvoy CR, Allen DL, et  a l. Evolution of 
multidrug resistance during Staphylococcus aureus  
infection involves mutation of the essential two component regulator WalKR. PLoS Pathog. 
2011;7:e1002359.
20. Sakoulas G, Eliopoulos GM, Moellering RC Jr, et  a l. 
Accessory gene regulator (agr) locus in geographically diverse Staphylococcus aureus  isolates with reduced 
susceptibility to vancomycin. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2002;46:1492–1502.
21. Sakoulas G, Moellering RC Jr, Eliopoulos GM. 
Adaptation of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
in the face of vancomycin therapy. Clin Infect Dis. 
2006;42(suppl 1):S40–S50.
22. Moise-Broder PA, Sakoulas G, Eliopoulos GM, et  a l. 
Accessory gene regulator group II polymorphism in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  is predictive of 
failure of vancomycin therapy. Clin Infect Dis. 
2004;38:1700–1705.23. Cafiso V , Bertuccio T, Spina D, et  a l. Modulating activity 
of vancomycin and daptomycin on the expression of autolysis cell-wall turnover and membrane charge genes in hVISA and VISA strains. PLoS ONE. 2012;7:e29573.
24.
 Wootton M, Howe RA, Hillman R, et  a l. A modified 
population analysis profile (PAP) method to detect hetero-resistance to vancomycin in Staphylococcus aureus  
in a UK hospital. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2001;47:399–403.
25.
 Howden BP , Davies JK, Johnson PD, et  a l. Reduced 
vancomycin susceptibility in Staphylococcus aureus, 
including vancomycin-intermediate and heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate strains: resistance mechanisms, laboratory detection, and clinical implications. Clin 
Microbiol Rev . 2010;23:99–139.
26. Appelbaum PC. Reduced glycopeptide susceptibility in 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  (MRSA). Int J 
Antimicrob Agents. 2007;30:398–408.
27. Wootton M, MacGowan AP , Walsh TR, et  a l. A 
multicenter study evaluating the current strategies for isolating Staphylococcus aureus  strains with reduced 
susceptibility to glycopeptides. J Clin Microbiol. 
2007;45:329–332.
28. Vaudaux P , Huggler E, Bernard L, et  a l. Underestimation 
of vancomycin and teicoplanin MICs by broth microdilution leads to underdetection of glycopeptide-intermediate isolates of Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2010;54:3861–3870.
29. Miller CE, Batra R, Cooper BS, et  a l. An association 
between bacterial genotype combined with a high-vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration and risk of endocarditis in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  bloodstream infection. Clin Infect Dis. 
2012;54:591–600.
30. Howden BP , Smith DJ, Mansell A, et  a l. Different 
bacterial gene expression patterns and attenuated host immune responses are associated with the evolution of low-level vancomycin resistance during persistent methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia. 
BMC Microbiol. 2008;8:39.
31. Horne KC, Howden BP , Grabsch EA, et  a l. Prospective 
comparison of the clinical impacts of heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  (MRSA) and vancomycin-
susceptible MRSA. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2009;53:3447–3452.
32.
 Sakoulas G, Moise-Broder PA, Schentag J, et  a l. 
Relationship of MIC and bactericidal activity to efficacy of vancomycin for treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. J Clin Microbiol. 
2004;42:2398–2402.
33. Moise PA, Sakoulas G, Forrest A, et  a l. Vancomycin in 
vitro bactericidal activity and its relationship to efficacy in clearance of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2007;51:2582–2586.
34.
 Hidayat LK, Hsu DI, Quist R, et  a l. High-dose 
vancomycin therapy for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  infections: efficacy and toxicity. 
Arch Intern Med. 2006;166:2138–2144.
35. Maclayton DO, Suda KJ, Coval KA, et  a l. Case-control 
study of the relationship between MRSA bacteremia with a vancomycin MIC of 2 microg/mL and risk factors, costs, and outcomes in inpatients undergoing hemodialysis. Clin Ther. 2006;28:1208–1216.
36. Holmes NE, Turnidge JD, Munckhof WJ, et  a l. Antibiotic 
choice may not explain poorer outcomes in patients with Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia and high vancomycin 
minimum inhibitory concentrations. J Infect Dis . 
2011;204:340–347.
37. Wang JL, Wang JT, Sheng WH, et  a l. Nosocomial 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  (MRSA) 
bacteremia in Taiwan: mortality analyses and the impact of vancomycin, MIC =
 2 mg/L, by the broth 
microdilution method. BMC Infect Dis. 2010;10:159.
38. van Hal SJ, Lodise TP , Paterson DL. The clinical 
significance of vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration in Staphylococcus aureu s infections: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis. Clin Infect Dis. 
2012;54:755–771.
39. Kalil AC, Van Schooneveld TC, Fey PD, et  a l. Association 
between vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration and mortality among patients with Staphylococcus aureus  
bloodstream infections: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA. 2014;312:1552–1564.
40. Honda H, Doern CD, Michael-Dunne W Jr, et  a l. The 
impact of vancomycin susceptibility on treatment outcomes among patients with methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. BMC Infect Dis. 
2011;11:335.
41. Song KH, et  a l. Impact of vancomycin MIC on treatment 
outcomes in invasive Staphylococcus aureus  infections. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2017;61:pii: e01845-16.42. Keel RA, Sutherland CA, Aslanzadeh J, et  a l. Correlation 
between vancomycin and daptomycin MIC values for methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  by 3 testing methodologies. Diagn 
Microbiol Infect Dis . 2010;68:326–329.
43.
 Liu C, Bayer A, Cosgrove SE, et  a l. Clinical practice 
guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America for the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  infections in adults and children. Clin Infect Dis. 
2011;52:e18–e55.
44.
 Sievert DM, Rudrik JT, Patel JB, et  a l. Vancomycin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in the United States, 
2002-2006. Clin Infect Dis. 2008;46:668–674.
45. Walters MS, Eggers P , Albrecht V , et  a l. Vancomycin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus —Delaware, 2015. MMWR 
Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 2015;64:1056.
46. Rossi F , Diaz L, Wollam A, et  a l. Transferable vancomycin 
resistance in a community-associated MRSA lineage. N 
Engl J Med. 2014;370:1524–1531.
47. Panesso D, Planet PJ, Diaz L, et  a l. Methicillin-
susceptible, vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, 
Brazil. Emerg Infect Dis. 2015;21:1844–1848.
48. Perichon B, Courvalin P . VanA-type vancomycin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2009;53:4580–4587.
49. Mashaly GE, El-Mahdy RH. Vancomycin heteroresistance 
in coagulase negative Staphylococcus  blood stream 
infections from patients of intensive care units in Mansoura University Hospitals, Egypt. Ann Clin 
Microbiol Antimicrob . 2017;16:63.
50. Rodriguez CA, Atkinson R, Bitar W , et  a l. Tolerance to 
vancomycin in pneumococci: detection with a molecular marker and assessment of clinical impact. J Infect Dis . 
2004;190:1481–1487.
51. Olivares A, Trejo JO, Arellano-Galindo J, et  a l. pep27 and 
lytA in vancomycin-tolerant pneumococci. J Microbiol 
Biotechnol . 2011;21:1345–1351.
52. Liu X, Li JW , Feng Z, et  a l. Transcriptional repressor PtvR 
regulates phenotypic tolerance to vancomycin in Streptococcus pneumoniae . J Bacteriol . 
2017;199:e00054-17.
53.
 Rybak MJ. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
properties of vancomycin. Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42(suppl 
1):S35–S39.
54. Moise PA, Forrest A, Bhavnani SM, et  a l. Area under the 
inhibitory curve and a pneumonia scoring system for predicting outcomes of vancomycin therapy for respiratory infections by Staphylococcus aureus . Am J 
Health Syst Pharm. 2000;57(suppl 2):S4–S9.
55.
 Moise-Broder PA, Forrest A, Birmingham MC, et  a l. 
Pharmacodynamics of vancomycin and other antimicrobials in patients with Staphylococcus aureus  
lower respiratory tract infections. Clin Pharmacokinet . 
2004;43:925–942.
56.
 Rybak M, Lomaestro B, Rotschafer JC, et  a l. Therapeutic 
monitoring of vancomycin in adult patients: a consensus review of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, the Infectious Diseases Society of America, and the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists. Am J 
Health Syst Pharm. 2009;66:82–98.
57. Neely MN, et  a l. Prospective trial on the use of trough 
concentration versus area under the curve to determine therapeutic vancomycin dosing. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2018;62.
58.
 Kullar R, Davis SL, Levine DP , et  a l. Impact of 
vancomycin exposure on outcomes in patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: 
support for consensus guidelines suggested targets. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2011;52:975–981.
59. Jung Y , et  a l. Area under the concentration-time curve to 
minimum inhibitory concentration ratio as a predictor of vancomycin treatment outcome in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia. Int J Antimicrob 
Agents. 2014;43:179–183.
60. Song KH, et  a l. Impact of area under the concentration-
time curve to minimum inhibitory concentration ratio on vancomycin treatment outcomes in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia. Int J Antimicrob 
Agents. 2015;46:689–695.
61. Men P , Li HB, Zhai SD, et  a l. Association between the 
AUC0-24/MIC ratio of vancomycin and its clinical effectiveness: a systematic review and meta-analysis. PLoS 
ONE . 2016;11:e0146224.
62. Neely MN, Y oun G, Jones B, et  a l. Are vancomycin 
trough concentrations adequate for optimal dosing? Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2014;58:309–316.
63. Patel N, Pai MP , Rodvold KA, et  a l. Vancomycin: we can’t 
get there from here. Clin Infect Dis. 2011;52:969– 
974.
64. Mohr JF , Murray BE. Point: vancomycin is not obsolete 
for the treatment of infection caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Clin Infect Dis. 
2007;44:1536–1542.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telavancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)
395.e3
65. Jumah MTB, Vasoo S, Menon SR, et  a l. Pharmacokinetic/
pharmacodynamic determinants of vancomycin efficacy 
in enterococcal bacteremia. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2018;62:pii: e01602-17.
66. Britt NS, Patel N, Shireman TI, et  a l. Relationship 
between vancomycin tolerance and clinical outcomes in Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2017;72:535–542.
67.
 Vesga O, Agudelo M, Salazar BE, et  a l. Generic 
vancomycin products fail in vivo despite being pharmaceutical equivalents of the innovator. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2010;54:3271–3279.
68. Nambiar S, Madurawe RD, Zuk SM, et  a l. Product quality 
of parenteral vancomycin products in the United States. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2012;56:2819–2823.
69. Tattevin P , Saleh-Mghir A, Davido B, et  a l. Comparison 
of six generic vancomycin products for treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  experimental 
endocarditis in rabbits. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2013;57:1157–1162.
70. Griffith RS. Vancomycin use—an historical review. J 
Antimicrob Chemother. 1984;14(supplD):1–5.
71. Moellering RC. Pharmacokinetics of vancomycin. J 
Antimicrob Chemother. 1984;14(supplD):43–52.
72. Beach JE, Perrott J, Turgeon RD, et  a l. Penetration of 
vancomycin into the cerebrospinal fluid: a systematic review. Clin Pharmacokinet . 2017;56:1479–1490.
73. Ricard JD, Wolff M, Lacherade JC, et  a l. Levels of 
vancomycin in cerebrospinal fluid of adult patients receiving adjunctive corticosteroids to treat pneumococcal meningitis: a prospective multicenter observational study. Clin Infect Dis. 2007;44:250–255.
74. Albanese J, Leone M, Bruguerolle B, et  a l. Cerebrospinal 
fluid penetration and pharmacokinetics of vancomycin administered by continuous infusion to mechanically ventilated patients in an intensive care unit. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2000;44:1356–1358.
75. Daschner FD, Frank U, Kummel A, et  a l. 
Pharmacokinetics of vancomycin in serum and tissue of patients undergoing open-heart surgery. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 1987;19:359–362.
76. Payne CJ, Thomson AH, Stearns AT, et  a l. 
Pharmacokinetics and tissue penetration of vancomycin continuous infusion as prophylaxis for vascular surgery. J 
Antimicrob Chemother. 2011;66:2624–2627.
77. Lodise TP , Drusano GL, Butterfield JM, et  a l. Penetration 
of vancomycin into epithelial lining fluid in healthy volunteers. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2011;55:5507–5511.
78. Kitzes-Cohen R, Farin D, Piva G, et  a l. Pharmacokinetics 
of vancomycin administered as prophylaxis before cardiac surgery. Ther Drug Monit. 2000;22:661–667.
79. Garazzino S, Aprato A, Baietto L, et  a l. Glycopeptide 
bone penetration in patients with septic pseudoarthrosis of the tibia. Clin Pharmacokinet . 2008;47:793–805.
80. Bue M, et  a l. Bone and subcutaneous adipose tissue 
pharmacokinetics of vancomycin in total knee replacement patients. Acta Orthop . 2017;1–6.
81. Hao JJ, Chen H, Zhou JX. Continuous versus intermittent 
infusion of vancomycin in adult patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 
2016;47:28–35.
82. Wang JT, Fang CT, Chen YC, et  a l. Necessity of a loading 
dose when using vancomycin in critically ill patients. J 
Antimicrob Chemother. 2001;47:246.
83. Truong J, Levkovich BJ, Padiglione AA. Simple approach 
to improving vancomycin dosing in intensive care: a standardised loading dose results in earlier therapeutic levels. Intern Med J. 2012;42:23–29.
84. Grace E. Altered vancomycin pharmacokinetics in obese 
and morbidly obese patients: what we have learned over the past 30 years. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2012;67:1305–1310.
85. Kaplan EL. Vancomycin in infants and children: a review 
of pharmacology and indications for therapy and prophylaxis. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
1984;14(supplD):59–66.
86. Frymoyer A, Guglielmo BJ, Wilson SD, et  a l. Impact of a 
hospitalwide increase in empiric pediatric vancomycin dosing on initial trough concentrations. Pharmacotherapy . 2011;31:871–876.
87. Buckel WR. Risk factors for non-therapeutic initial 
steady-state vancomycin trough concentrations in children and adolescents receiving high empiric doses of intravenous vancomycin. Paediatr Drugs . 2017;19:43–51.
88. Anderson BJ, Allegaert K, Van den Anker JN, et  a l. 
Vancomycin pharmacokinetics in preterm neonates and the prediction of adult clearance. Br J Clin Pharmacol . 
2007;63:75–84.
89. Badran EF , Shamayleh A, Irshaid YM. Pharmacokinetics 
of vancomycin in neonates admitted to the neonatology unit at the Jordan University Hospital. Int J Clin 
Pharmacol Ther . 2011;49:252–257.90. Ringenberg T, Robinson C, Meyers R, et  a l. Achievement 
of therapeutic vancomycin trough serum concentrations with empiric dosing in neonatal intensive care unit patients. Pediatr Infect Dis J . 2015;34:742–747.
91. Morse GD, Farolino DF , Apicella MA, et  a l. Comparative 
study of intraperitoneal and intravenous vancomycin pharmacokinetics during continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1987;31:173–177.
92.
 Li PK, Szeto CC, Piraino B, et  a l. ISPD peritonitis 
recommendations: 2016 update on prevention and treatment. Perit Dial Int. 2016;36:481–508.
93. The management of neurosurgical patients with 
postoperative bacterial or aseptic meningitis or external ventricular drain-associated ventriculitis. Infection in Neurosurgery Working Party of the British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. Br J Neurosurg. 
2000;14:7–12.
94. Ng K, Mabasa VH, Chow I, et  a l. Systematic review of 
efficacy, pharmacokinetics, and administration of intraventricular vancomycin in adults. Neurocrit Care. 
2014;20:158–171.
95.
 Tunkel AR, Hasbun R, Bhimraj A, et  a l. 2017 Infectious 
Diseases Society of America’s clinical practice guidelines for healthcare-associated ventriculitis and meningitis. Clin Infect Dis. 2017;64:e34–e65.
96. Vandecasteele SJ, De Vriese AS. Recent changes in 
vancomycin use in renal failure. Kidney Int . 
2010;77:760–764.
97. Vandecasteele SJ, De Vriese AS. Vancomycin dosing in 
patients on intermittent hemodialysis. Semin Dial. 
2011;24:50–55.
98. Barth RH, DeVincenzo N. Use of vancomycin in 
high-flux hemodialysis: experience with 130 courses of therapy. Kidney Int . 1996;50:929–936.
99. Taylor ME, Allon M. Practical vancomycin dosing in 
hemodialysis patients in the era of emerging vancomycin resistance: a single-center experience. Am J Kidney Dis . 
2010;55:1163–1165.
100.
 Zelenitsky SA, Ariano RE, McCrae ML, et  a l. Initial 
vancomycin dosing protocol to achieve therapeutic serum concentrations in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2012;55:527–533.
101. Stamatakis MK, Schreiber JM, Slain D, et  a l. Vancomycin 
administration during dialysis with low-flux polysulfone membranes: traditional versus a supplemental dosage regimen. Am J Health Syst Pharm . 2003;60:1564–1568.
102. van de Vijsel LM, Walker SA, Walker SE, et  a l. Initial 
vancomycin dosing recommendations for critically ill patients undergoing continuous venovenous hemodialysis. Can J Hosp Pharm . 2010;63:196–206.
103. Wilson FP , Berns JS. Vancomycin levels are frequently 
subtherapeutic during continuous venovenous hemodialysis (CVVHD). Clin Nephrol . 2012;77:329–331.
104. Chaijamorn W , Jitsurong A, Wiwattanawongsa K, et  a l. 
Vancomycin clearance during continuous venovenous haemofiltration in critically ill patients. Int J Antimicrob 
Agents. 2011;38:152–156.
105. Sin JH, Newman K, Elshaboury RH, et  a l. Prospective 
evaluation of a continuous infusion vancomycin dosing nomogram in critically ill patients undergoing continuous venovenous haemofiltration. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2018;73:199–203.
106. Geraci JE, Heilman FR, Nichols DR, et  a l. Antibiotic 
therapy of bacterial endocarditis, VII. Vancomycin for acute micrococcal endocarditis. Proc Staff Meet Mayo 
Clin. 1958;33:172–181.
107. Forouzesh A, Moise PA, Sakoulas G. Vancomycin 
ototoxicity: a reevaluation in an era of increasing doses. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2009;53:483–486.
108.
 Elyasi S, Khalili H, Dashti-Khavidaki S, et  a l. 
Vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity: mechanism, incidence, risk factors and special populations: a literature review. Eur J Clin Pharmacol . 
2012;68:1243–1255.
109. Sakamoto Y , et  a l. Vancomycin induces reactive oxygen 
species- dependent apoptosis via mitochondrial cardiolipin peroxidation in renal tubular epithelial cells. Eur J Pharmacol . 2017;800:48–56.
110. Jeffres MN, Isakow W , Doherty JA, et  a l. Predictors of 
mortality for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
health-care-associated pneumonia: specific evaluation of vancomycin pharmacokinetic indices. Chest . 
2006;130:947–955.
111. Van Hal S, Paterson D, Lodise T. Systematic review and 
meta- analysis of vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity associated with dosing schedules that maintain troughs between 15 and 20 milligrams per liter. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2013;57:734–744.
112. Jeffres MN. The whole price of vancomycin: toxicities, 
troughs, and time. Drugs . 2017;77:1143–1154.
113. Bosso JA, Nappi J, Rudisill C, et  a l. Relationship between 
vancomycin trough concentrations and nephrotoxicity: a prospective multicenter trial. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2011;55:5475–5479.
114. Lodise TP , Lomaestro B, Graves J, et  a l. Larger 
vancomycin doses (at least four grams per day) are associated with an increased incidence of nephrotoxicity. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2008;52:1330–1336.
115. Cano EL, Haque NZ, Welch VL, et  a l. Incidence of 
nephrotoxicity and association with vancomycin use in intensive care unit patients with pneumonia: retrospective analysis of the IMPACT-HAP database. Clin Ther. 
2012;34:149–157.
116.
 Cosgrove SE, Vigliani GA, Fowler VG Jr, et  a l. Initial 
low-dose gentamicin for Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia and endocarditis is nephrotoxic. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2009;48:713–721.
117. Hammond DA, Smith MN, Li C, et  a l. Systematic review 
and meta-analysis of acute kidney injury associated with concomitant vancomycin and piperacillin/tazobactam. Clin Infect Dis. 2017;64:666–674.
118. Luther MK, Timbrook TT, Caffrey AR, et  a l. Vancomycin 
plus piperacillin-tazobactam and acute kidney injury in adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Crit Care 
Med . 2018;46:12–20.
119. McKamy S, Hernandez E, Jahng M, et  a l. Incidence and 
risk factors influencing the development of vancomycin nephrotoxicity in children. J Pediatr . 2011;158:422–426.
120. Hanrahan T, Whitehouse T, Lipman J, et  a l. Vancomycin-
associated nephrotoxicity: a meta-analysis of administration by continuous versus intermittent infusion. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 2015;46:249–253.
121. Filippone EJ, Kraft WK, Farber JL. The nephrotoxicity of 
vancomycin. Clin Pharmacol Ther . 2017;102:459–469.
122. Myers AL, Gaedigk A, Dai H, et  a l. Defining risk factors 
for red man syndrome in children and adults. Pediatr 
Infect Dis J . 2012;31:464–468.
123. Von Drygalski A, Curtis BR, Bougie DW , et  a l. 
Vancomycin-induced immune thrombocytopenia. N Engl 
J Med . 2007;356:904–910.
124. Minhas JS, Wickner PG, Long AA, et  a l. Immune-
mediated reactions to vancomycin: a systematic case review and analysis. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol . 
2016;116:544–553.
125. Chen Y , Y ang XY , Zeckel M, et  a l. Risk of hepatic events 
in patients treated with vancomycin in clinical studies: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Drug Saf . 
2011;34:73–82.
126.
 Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF , et  a l. Practice 
guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft-tissue infections. Clin Infect Dis. 2005;41:1373–1406.
127. Deresinski S. Counterpoint: vancomycin and 
Staphylococcus aureus —an antibiotic enters obsolescence. 
Clin Infect Dis. 2007;44:1543–1548.
128. Baddour LM, et  a l. Infective endocarditis in adults: 
diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and management of complications. a scientific statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. Circulation . 2015;132:1435–1486.
129.
 Fowler VG Jr, Boucher HW , Corey GR, et  a l. Daptomycin 
versus standard therapy for bacteremia and endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus . N Engl J Med . 
2006;355:653–665.
130. Bayer AS, Murray BE. Initial low-dose aminoglycosides in 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: good science, urban 
legend or just plain toxic? Clin Infect Dis. 2009;48:722–724.
131. Thwaites GE, Scarborough M, Szubert A, et  a l. 
Adjunctive rifampicin for Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteraemia (ARREST): a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet . 
2018;391:668–678.
132.
 Lodise TP , Graves J, Evans A, et  a l. Relationship between 
vancomycin MIC and failure among patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia 
treated with vancomycin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2008;52:3315–3320.
133. Truong J, Veillette JJ, Forland SC, et  a l. Outcomes of 
vancomycin plus a β-lactam versus vancomycin only for 
the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  bacteremia. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2018;62:pii: e01554-17.
134. Casapao AM, et  a l. Early administration of adjuvant 
β-lactam therapy in combination with vancomycin among patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  bloodstream infection: a retrospective, multicenter 
analysis. Pharmacotherapy . 2017;37:1347–1356.
135. Davis JS, Sud A, O’Sullivan MV , et  a l. Combination of 
vancomycin and β-lactam therapy for methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: a pilot 
multicenter randomized controlled trial. Clin Infect Dis. 
2016;62:173–180.
136. Smith T, Pearson ML, Wilcox KR, et  a l. Emergence of 
vancomycin resistance in Staphylococcus aureus: 
epidemiology and clinical significance. N Engl J Med . 
1999;340:493–501.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.395.e4
Part I  Basic Principles in the Diagnosis and Management of Infectious Diseases137. Pericàs JM. Influence of vancomycin minimum inhibitory 
concentration on the outcome of methicillin-susceptible 
Staphylococcus aureus  left-sided infective endocarditis 
treated with antistaphylococcal β-lactam antibiotics: a 
prospective cohort study by the International Collaboration on Endocarditis. Clin Microbiol Infect . 
2017;23:544–549.
138.
 Murray BE. The life and times of the Enterococcus . Clin 
Microbiol Rev . 1990;3:46–65.
139. Habib G, Lancellotti P , Antunes MJ, et  a l. 2015 ESC 
guidelines for the management of infective endocarditis: the Task Force for the Management of Infective Endocarditis of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Endorsed by: European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS), the European Association of Nuclear Medicine (EANM). Eur Heart J . 
2015;36:3075–3128.
140. Kaplan SL. Management of pneumococcal meningitis. 
Pediatr Infect Dis J . 2002;21:589–591, discussion 613–614.
141. Fitch MT, Abrahamian FM, Moran GJ, et  a l. Emergency 
department management of meningitis and encephalitis. Infect Dis Clin North Am . 2008;22:33–52, v–vi.
142.
 Tunkel AR, Hartman BJ, Kaplan SL, et  a l. Practice 
guidelines for the management of bacterial meningitis. Clin Infect Dis. 2004;39:1267–1284.
143. Aguilar J, Urday-Cornejo V , Donabedian S, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  meningitis: case series and 
literature review. Medicine (Baltimore). 2010;89:117–125.
144. Rubinstein E, Cammarata S, Oliphant T, et  a l. Linezolid 
(PNU-100766) versus vancomycin in the treatment of hospitalized patients with nosocomial pneumonia: a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2001;32:402–412.
145. Wunderink RG, Cammarata SK, Oliphant TH, et  a l. 
Continuation of a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study of linezolid versus vancomycin in the treatment of patients with nosocomial pneumonia. Clin Ther. 
2003;25:980–992.
146.
 Wunderink RG, Niederman MS, Kollef MH, et  a l. 
Linezolid in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
nosocomial pneumonia: a randomized, controlled study. Clin Infect Dis. 2012;54:621–629.
147. Jung YJ, Koh Y , Hong SB, et  a l. Effect of vancomycin plus 
rifampicin in the treatment of nosocomial methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  pneumonia. Crit Care 
Med . 2010;38:175–180.
148.
 Rubinstein E, Lalani T, Corey GR, et  a l. Telavancin versus 
vancomycin for hospital-acquired pneumonia due to gram-positive pathogens. Clin Infect Dis. 2011;52:31–40.
149. Eliakim-Raz N, et  a l. Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 
versus vancomycin in the treatment of healthcare/ventilator-associated MRSA pneumonia: a case-control study. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2017;72:882–887.
150. Dombrowski JC, Winston LG. Clinical failures of 
appropriately-treated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  infections. J Infect . 2008;57:110–115.
151. Daver NG, Shelburne SA, Atmar RL, et  a l. Oral 
step-down therapy is comparable to intravenous therapy for Staphylococcus aureus  osteomyelitis. J Infect . 
2007;54:539–544.
152. Bartlett JG. Clinical practice. Antibiotic-associated 
diarrhea. N Engl J Med . 2002;346:334–339.
153. Zar FA, Bakkanagari SR, Moorthi KM, et  a l. A 
comparison of vancomycin and metronidazole for the treatment of Clostridium difficile –associated diarrhea, 
stratified by disease severity. Clin Infect Dis. 
2007;45:302–307.
154.
 Cohen SH, Gerding DN, Johnson S, et  a l. Clinical 
practice guidelines for Clostridium difficile  infection in 
adults: 2010 update by the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA). Infect Control Hosp 
Epidemiol . 2010;31:431–455.
155. Louie TJ, Miller MA, Mullane KM, et  a l. Fidaxomicin 
versus vancomycin for Clostridium difficile  infection. N 
Engl J Med. 2011;364:422–431.
156. Manthey CF , Eckmann L, Fuhrmann V . Therapy for 
Clostridium difficile  infection—any news beyond 
metronidazole and vancomycin? Expert Rev Clin 
Pharmacol . 2017;10:1239–1250.
157. Freifeld AG, Bow EJ, Sepkowitz KA, et  a l. Clinical 
practice guideline for the use of antimicrobial agents in neutropenic patients with cancer: 2010 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 
2011;52:e56–e93.
158. Wilson W , Taubert KA, Gewitz M, et  a l. Prevention of 
infective endocarditis: guidelines from the American Heart Association: a guideline from the American Heart Association Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki Disease Committee, Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Y oung, and the Council on Clinical Cardiology, Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, and the Quality of Care and Outcomes Research Interdisciplinary Working Group. Circulation . 
2007;116:1736–1754.
159.
 Bratzler DW , Dellinger EP , Olsen KM, et  a l. Clinical 
practice guidelines for antimicrobial prophylaxis in surgery. Am J Health Syst Pharm . 2013;70:195–283.
160. Sewick A, Makani A, Wu C, et  a l. Does dual antibiotic 
prophylaxis better prevent surgical site infections in total joint arthroplasty? Clin Orthop Relat Res . 
2012;470:2702–2707.
161. Courtney PM, Melnic CM, Zimmer Z, et  a l. Addition of 
vancomycin to cefazolin prophylaxis is associated with acute kidney injury after primary joint arthroplasty. Clin 
Orthop Relat Res . 2015;473:2197–2203.
162. Verani JR, McGee L, Schrag SJ. Prevention of perinatal 
group B streptococcal disease—revised guidelines from CDC, 2010. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2010;59(RR–10): 
1–36.
163. Bakhsheshian J, Dahdaleh NS, Lam SK, et  a l. The use of 
vancomycin powder in modern spine surgery: systematic review and meta-analysis of the clinical evidence. World 
Neurosurg . 2015;83:816–823.
164. Adogwa O, et  a l. Prophylactic use of intraoperative 
vancomycin powder and postoperative infection: an analysis of microbiological patterns in 1200 consecutive surgical cases. J Neurosurg Spine . 2017;27:328–334.
165. Goldschmidt E, et  a l. The effect of vancomycin powder 
on human dural fibroblast culture and its implications for dural repair during spine surgery. J Neurosurg Spine . 
2016;25:665–670.
166.
 Mermel LA, Allon M, Bouza E, et  a l. Clinical practice 
guidelines for the diagnosis and management of intravascular catheter-related infection: 2009 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2009;49:1–45.
167. van de Wetering MD, van Woensel JB, Lawrie TA. 
Prophylactic antibiotics for preventing gram positive infections associated with long-term central venous catheters in oncology patients. Cochrane Database Syst 
Rev. 2013;(11):CD003295.
168. Hope R, Livermore DM, Brick G, et  a l. Non-susceptibility 
trends among staphylococci from bacteraemias in the UK and Ireland, 2001-06. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2008;62(suppl 2):ii65–ii74.
169. Decousser JW , Desroches M, Bourgeois-Nicolaos N, et  a l. 
Susceptibility trends including emergence of linezolid resistance among coagulase-negative staphylococci and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  from invasive 
infections. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 2015;46:622–630.
170. Kristof K, Kocsis E, Szabo D, et  a l. Significance of 
methicillin-teicoplanin resistant Staphylococcus 
haemolyticus  in bloodstream infections in patients of the 
Semmelweis University hospitals in Hungary. Eur J Clin 
Microbiol Infect Dis . 2011;30:691–699.
171. Wilson AP , Gruneberg RN, Neu HC. A critical review of 
the dosage of teicoplanin in Europe and the USA. Int J 
Antimicrob Agents. 1994;4(suppl 1):S1–S30.
172. Wilson AP . Clinical pharmacokinetics of teicoplanin. Clin 
Pharmacokinet . 2000;39:167–183.
173. Mimoz O, Rolland D, Adoun M, et  a l. Steady-state trough 
serum and epithelial lining fluid concentrations of 
teicoplanin 12  mg/kg per day in patients with 
ventilator-associated pneumonia. Intensive Care Med. 
2006;32:775–779.
174. Ueda T, Takesue Y , Nakajima K, et  a l. High-dose regimen 
to achieve novel target trough concentration in teicoplanin. J Infect Chemother. 2014;20:43–47.
175. Nakamura A, et  a l. Development of a teicoplanin loading 
regimen that rapidly achieves target serum concentrations in critically ill patients with severe infections. J Infect 
Chemother . 2015;21:449–455.
176. Takechi K, Y anagawa H, Zamami Y , et  a l. Evaluation of 
factors associated with the achievement of an optimal teicoplanin trough concentration. Int J Clin Pharmacol 
Ther . 2017;55:672–677.
177. Ueda T, et  a l. Enhanced loading regimen of teicoplanin is 
necessary to achieve therapeutic pharmacokinetics levels for the improvement of clinical outcomes in patients with renal dysfunction. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 
2016;35:1501–1509.
178. Targocid package insert. https://www.medicines.org.uk/
emc/medicine/27321.
179. Papaioannou MG, Marinaki S, Pappas M, et  a l. 
Pharmacokinetics of teicoplanin in patients undergoing chronic haemodialysis. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 
2002;19:233–236.
180. Pea F , Viale P , Pavan F , et  a l. Pharmacokinetic 
considerations for antimicrobial therapy in patients receiving renal replacement therapy. Clin Pharmacokinet . 
2007;46:997–1038.
181. Bellmann R, Falkensammer G, Seger C, et  a l. Teicoplanin 
pharmacokinetics in critically ill patients on continuous veno-venous hemofiltration. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther . 
2010;48:243–249.182.
 Chang HJ, Hsu PC, Y ang CC, et  a l. Influence of 
teicoplanin MICs on treatment outcomes among patients with teicoplanin-treated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia: a hospital-based 
retrospective study. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2012;67:736–741.
183. Wang JT, Wu HS, Weng CM, et  a l. Prognosis of patients 
with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
bloodstream infection treated with teicoplanin: a retrospective cohort study investigating effect of teicoplanin minimum inhibitory concentrations. BMC 
Infect Dis . 2013;13:182.
184. Lai C, et  a l. Combination of cephalosporins with 
vancomycin or teicoplanin enhances antibacterial effect of glycopeptides against heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  (hVISA) and VISA. 
Sci Rep. 2017;7:41758.
185. Davey PG, Williams AH. A review of the safety profile of 
teicoplanin. J Antimicrob Chemother. 1991;27 Suppl 
B:69–73.
186. Wilson AP . Comparative safety of teicoplanin and 
vancomycin. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 1998;10:143–152.
187. Hung YP , Lee NY , Chang CM, et  a l. Tolerability of 
teicoplanin in 117 hospitalized adults with previous vancomycin-induced fever, rash, or neutropenia: a retrospective chart review. Clin Ther. 2009;31:1977– 
1986.
188. Svetitsky S, Leibovici L, Paul M. Comparative efficacy and 
safety of vancomycin versus teicoplanin: systematic review and meta-analysis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2009;53:4069–4079.
189. Y oon YK, et  a l. Multicenter prospective observational 
study of the comparative efficacy and safety of vancomycin versus teicoplanin in patients with health care-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2014;58:317–324.
190. Popovic N, Korac M, Nesic Z, et  a l. Oral teicoplanin 
versus oral vancomycin for the treatment of severe Clostridium difficile  infection: a prospective observational 
study. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 2018;37:745–754.
191. Tornero E, et  a l. Prophylaxis with teicoplanin and 
cefuroxime reduces the rate of prosthetic joint infection after primary arthroplasty. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2015;59:831–837.
192.
 Van Bambeke F . Glycopeptides in clinical development: 
pharmacological profile and clinical perspectives. Curr 
Opin Pharmacol . 2004;4:471–478.
193. Guskey MT, Tsuji BT. A comparative review of the 
lipoglycopeptides: oritavancin, dalbavancin, and telavancin. Pharmacotherapy . 2010;30:80–94.
194. Swartz TH, Huprikar S, Labombardi V , et  a l. Heart 
transplantation in a patient with heteroresistant vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  
ventricular assist device mediastinitis and bacteremia. Transpl Infect Dis . 2013;15:E177–E181.
195. Werth BJ, Jain R, Hahn A, et  a l. Emergence of 
dalbavancin non-susceptible, vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  (VISA) after treatment of MRSA 
central line-associated bloodstream infection with a dalbavancin- and vancomycin-containing regimen. Clin 
Microbiol Infect . 2018;24:429.e1–429.e5.
196.
 Higgins DL, Chang R, Debabov DV , et  a l. Telavancin, a 
multifunctional lipoglycopeptide, disrupts both cell wall synthesis and cell membrane integrity in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2005;49:1127–1134.
196a.  Hegde SS, Skinner R, Lewis SR, et  a l. Activity of 
telavancin against heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  (hVISA) in vitro and 
in an in vivo mouse model of bacteraemia. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2010;65:725–728.
196b.  Leuthner KD, Cheung CM, Rybak MJ. Comparative 
activity of the new lipoglycopeptide telavancin in the presence and absence of serum against 50 glycopeptide non-susceptible staphylococci and three vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2006;58:338–343.
196c.  Barcia-Macay M, Lemaire S, Mingeot-Leclercq MP , et  a l. 
Evaluation of the extracellular and intracellular activities (human THP-1 macrophages) of telavancin versus vancomycin against methicillin-susceptible, methicillin-resistant, vancomycin-intermediate and vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2006;58:1177–1184.
197.
 Lunde CS, Hartouni SR, Janc JW , et  a l. Telavancin 
disrupts the functional integrity of the bacterial membrane through targeted interaction with the cell wall precursor lipid II. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2009;53:3375–3383.
198. Karlowsky JA, Nichol K, Zhanel GG. Telavancin: 
mechanisms of action, in vitro activity, and mechanisms of resistance. Clin Infect Dis. 2015;61(S2):S58–S68.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 30  Glycopeptides (Vancomycin and Teicoplanin) and Lipoglycopeptides (Telavancin, Oritavancin, and Dalbavancin)
395.e5
198a.  Barcia-Macay M, Lemaire S, Mingeot-Leclercq MP , et  a l. 
Evaluation of the extracellular and intracellular activities 
(human THP-1 macrophages) of telavancin versus vancomycin against methicillin-susceptible, methicillin-resistant, vancomycin-intermediate and vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2006;58:1177–1184.
198b.  Steed ME, Vidaillac C, Rybak MJ. Evaluation of 
telavancin activity versus daptomycin and vancomycin against daptomycin-nonsusceptible Staphylococcus aureus  
in an in vitro pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2012;56:955–959.
199. Duncan LR, Sader HS, Smart JI, et  a l. Telavancin activity 
in vitro tested against a worldwide collection of gram-positive clinical isolates (2014). J Glob Antimicrob 
Resist . 2017;10:271–276.
200. Goldstein EJ, Citron DM, Merriam CV , et  a l. In vitro 
activities of the new semisynthetic glycopeptide telavancin (TD-6424), vancomycin, daptomycin, linezolid, and four comparator agents against anaerobic gram-positive species and Corynebacterium  spp. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2004;48:2149–2152.
200a.  Vibativ package insert. http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/
en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-_Product_Information/human/001240/WC500115364.pdf. Accessed January 3, 2018.
200b.  Hegde SS, Reyes N, Wiens T, et  a l. Pharmacodynamics 
of telavancin (TD-6424), a novel bactericidal agent, against gram-positive bacteria. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2004;48:3043–3050.
200c.  Sun HK, Duchin K, Nightingale CH, et  a l. Tissue 
penetration of telavancin after intravenous administration in healthy subjects. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2006;50:788–790.
200d.  Gotfried MH, Shaw JP , Benton BM, et  a l. 
Intrapulmonary distribution of intravenous telavancin in healthy subjects and effect of pulmonary surfactant on in vitro activities of telavancin and other antibiotics. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2008;52:92–97.
200e.  Lodise TP Jr, Gotfried M, Barriere S, et  a l. Telavancin 
penetration into human epithelial lining fluid determined by population pharmacokinetic modeling and Monte Carlo simulation. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2008;52:2300–2304.
200f.  Samara E, Shaw JP , Barriere SL, et  a l. Population 
pharmacokinetics of telavancin in healthy subjects and patients with infections. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2012;56:2067–2073.
200g.  Lodise TP , Butterfield JM, Hegde SS, et  a l. Telavancin 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in patients with complicated skin and skin structure infections and various degrees of renal function. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2012;56:2062–2066.
201. Vibativ package insert. http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/
en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-_Product_Information/human/001240/WC500115364.pdf. Accessed January 3, 2018.
201a.  Madrigal AG, Basuino L, Chambers HF . Efficacy of 
telavancin in a rabbit model of aortic valve endocarditis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  or 
vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2005;49:3163–3165.
201b.  Miro JM, Garcia-de-la-Maria C, Armero Y , et  a l. 
Efficacy of telavancin in the treatment of experimental endocarditis due to glycopeptide-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2007;51:2373–2377.
201c.  Crandon JL, Kuti JL, Nicolau DP . Comparative efficacies 
of human simulated exposures of telavancin and vancomycin against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  with a range of vancomycin MICs in a murine 
pneumonia model. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2010;54:5115–5119.
201d.  Polyzos KA, Mavros MN, Vardakas KZ, et  a l. Efficacy 
and safety of telavancin in clinical trials: a systematic review and meta-analysis. PLoS ONE. 2012;7:e41870.
202.
 Stryjewski ME, Graham DR, Wilson SE, et  a l. Telavancin 
versus vancomycin for the treatment of complicated skin and skin-structure infections caused by gram-positive organisms. Clin Infect Dis. 2008;46:1683–1693.
202a.  Marcos LA, Camins BC, Ritchie DJ, et  a l. Acute renal 
insufficiency during telavancin therapy in clinical practice. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2012;67:723–726.
203. Chuan J, Zhang Y , He X, et  a l. Systematic review and 
meta-analysis of the efficacy and safety of telavancin for treatment of infectious disease: are we clearer? Front 
Pharmacol . 2016;7:330.
204. Corey GR, Kollef MH, Shorr AF , et  a l. Telavancin for 
hospital-acquired pneumonia: clinical response and 28-day survival. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2014;58:2030–2037.
204a.  Stryjewski ME, O’Riordan WD, Lau WK, et  a l. Telavancin 
versus standard therapy for treatment of complicated skin and soft-tissue infections due to gram-positive bacteria. Clin Infect Dis. 2005;40:1601–1607.
204b.  Stryjewski ME, Chu VH, O’Riordan WD, et  a l. 
Telavancin versus standard therapy for treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections caused by gram-positive bacteria: FAST 2 study. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2006;50:862–867.
205. Lacy MK, Stryjewski ME, Wang W , et  a l. Telavancin 
hospital-acquired pneumonia trials: impact of gram-negative infections and inadequate gram-negative coverage on clinical efficacy and all-cause mortality. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2015;61(S2):S87–S93.
206. Stryjewski ME, Lentnek A, O’Riordan W , et  a l. A 
randomized Phase 2 trial of telavancin versus standard therapy in patients with uncomplicated Staphylococcus 
aureus  bacteremia: the ASSURE study. BMC Infect Dis. 
2014;14:289.
207. Ruggero MA, Peaper DR, Topal JE. Telavancin for 
refractory methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia and infective endocarditis. Infect Dis (Lond). 
2015;47:379–384.
208. Marcos LA, Camins BC. Successful treatment of 
vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  
pacemaker lead infective endocarditis with telavancin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2010;54:5376–5378.
209. Twilla JD, Gelfand MS, Cleveland KO, et  a l. Telavancin 
for the treatment of methicillin- resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  osteomyelitis. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2011;66:2675–2677.
210. Harting J, et  a l. Telavancin for the treatment of 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bone and joint 
infections. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 2017;89:294–299.
211. Van Bambeke F . Lipoglycopeptide antibacterial agents in 
gram-positive infections: a comparative review. Drugs . 
2015;75:2073–2095.
212. Cheng M, Ziora ZM, Hansford KA, et  a l. Anti-
cooperative ligand binding and dimerisation in the glycopeptide antibiotic dalbavancin. Org Biomol Chem. 
2014;12:2568–2575.
213. Goldstein BP , Draghi DC, Sheehan DJ, et  a l. Bactericidal 
activity and resistance development profiling of dalbavancin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2007;51:1150–1154.
214. Belley A, Lalonde Seguin D, Arhin F , et  a l. Comparative 
in vitro activities of oritavancin, dalbavancin, and vancomycin against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  isolates in a nondividing state. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2016;60:4342–4345.
215. Streit JM, Sader HS, Fritsche T, et  a l. Dalbavancin activity 
against selected populations of antimicrobial-resistant gram-positive pathogens. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 
2005;53:307–310.
216. McCurdy SP , Jones RN, Mendes RE, et  a l. In vitro activity 
of dalbavancin against drug-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  isolates from a global surveillance program. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2015;59:5007–5009.
217. Pfaller MA, Mendes RE, Sader HS, et  a l. Activity of 
dalbavancin tested against gram-positive clinical isolates causing skin and skin-structure infections in paediatric patients from US hospitals (2014-2015). J Glob 
Antimicrob Resist . 2017;11:4–7.
218. Goldstein EJ, Citron DM, Merriam CV , et  a l. In vitro 
activities of dalbavancin and nine comparator agents against anaerobic gram-positive species and corynebacteria. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2003;47:1968–1971.
219. Nicolau DP , Sun HK, Seltzer E, et  a l. Pharmacokinetics of 
dalbavancin in plasma and skin blister fluid. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2007;60:681–684.
220. Dunne MW , Puttagunta S, Sprenger CR, et  a l. 
Extended-duration dosing and distribution of dalbavancin into bone and articular tissue. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2015;59:1849–1855.
221. Gonzalez D, et  a l. Dalbavancin pharmacokinetics and 
safety in children 3 months to 11 years of age. Pediatr 
Infect Dis J . 2017;36:645–653.
222. Bradley JS, Puttagunta S, Rubino CM. Pharmacokinetics, 
safety and tolerability of single dose dalbavancin in children 12–17 years of age. Pediatr Infect Dis J . 
2015;34:748–752.
223. Andes D, Craig W A. In vivo pharmacodynamic activity 
of the glycopeptide dalbavancin. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2007;51:1633–1642.
224. Marbury T, Dowell JA, Seltzer E, et  a l. Pharmacokinetics 
of dalbavancin in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. J Clin Pharmacol . 2009;49:465–476.
225. Dalvance (dalbavancin) [full prescribing information]; 
Durata Therapeutics U.S. Limited. https://www.allergan.com/assets/pdf/dalvance_pi. Accessed November 19, 2017.
226.
 Boucher HW , Wilcox M, Talbot GH, et  a l. Once-weekly 
dalbavancin versus daily conventional therapy for skin infection. N Engl J Med . 2014;370:2169–2179.
227. Dunne MW , Zhou M, Darpo B. A thorough QT study 
with dalbavancin: a novel lipoglycopeptide antibiotic for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin-structure infections. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 2015;45:393–398.
228.
 Jauregui LE, Babazadeh S, Seltzer E, et  a l. Randomized, 
double-blind comparison of once-weekly dalbavancin versus twice-daily linezolid therapy for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2005;41:1407–1415.
229. Dunne MW , Puttagunta S, Giordano P , et  a l. A 
randomized clinical trial of single-dose versus weekly dalbavancin for treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infection. Clin Infect Dis. 2016;62:545–551.
229a.  Rappo R, Puttagunta S, Shevchenko V , et  a l. 
Dalbavancin for the Treatment of Osteomyelitis in Adult Patients: A Randomized Clinical Trial of Efficacy and Safety. Open Forum Infect Dis . 2018;6:ofy331.
230. Steele JM, Seabury RW , Hale CM, et  a l. Unsuccessful 
treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis with dalbavancin. J Clin Pharm Ther . 
2018;43:101–103.
231. Zhanel GG, Schweizer F , Karlowsky JA. Oritavancin: 
mechanism of action. Clin Infect Dis. 2012;54(suppl 
3):S214–S219.
232. Munch D, Engels I, Muller A, et  a l. Structural variations 
of the cell wall precursor lipid II - influence on binding and activity of the lipoglycopeptide antibiotic oritavancin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2015;59:772–781.
233.
 Morrissey I, Seifert H, Canton R, et  a l. Activity of 
oritavancin against methicillin-resistant staphylococci, vancomycin-resistant enterococci and β-haemolytic 
streptococci collected from western European countries in 2011. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2013;68:164–167.
234.
 Mendes RE, Farrell DJ, Sader HS, et  a l. Activity of 
oritavancin against gram-positive clinical isolates responsible for documented skin and soft-tissue infections in European and US hospitals (2010-13).  
J Antimicrob Chemother. 2015;70:498–504.
235. Mendes RE, et  a l. Longitudinal (2001-14) analysis of 
enterococci and VRE causing invasive infections in European and US hospitals, including a contemporary (2010-13) analysis of oritavancin in vitro potency. J 
Antimicrob Chemother. 2016;71:3453–3458.
236. Schwalbe RS, McIntosh AC, Qaiyumi S, et  a l. In vitro 
activity of LY333328, an investigational glycopeptide antibiotic, against enterococci and staphylococci. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1996;40:2416–2419.
237. Sweeney D, Stoneburner A, Shinabarger DL, et  a l. 
Comparative in vitro activity of oritavancin and other agents against vancomycin-susceptible and -resistant enterococci. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2017;72:622–624.
238. Duncan LR, Sader HS, Flamm RK, et  a l. Oritavancin in 
vitro activity against contemporary Staphylococcus aureus  
isolates responsible for invasive community- and healthcare-associated infections among patients in the United States (2013-2014). Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 
2016;86:303–306.
239. Smith JR, Yim J, Raut A, et  a l. Oritavancin combinations 
with β-lactams against multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  and vancomycin-resistant enterococci. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2016;60:2352–2358.
240. Rubino CM, Bhavnani SM, Moeck G, et  a l. Population 
pharmacokinetic analysis for a single 1,200-milligram dose of oritavancin using data from two pivotal phase 3 clinical trials. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2015;59:3365–3372.
241. Fetterly GJ, Ong CM, Bhavnani SM, et  a l. 
Pharmacokinetics of oritavancin in plasma and skin blister fluid following administration of a 200-milligram dose for 3 days or a single 800-milligram dose. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2005;49:148–152.
242. Boylan CJ, Campanale K, Iversen PW , et  a l. 
Pharmacodynamics of oritavancin (LY333328) in a neutropenic-mouse thigh model of Staphylococcus aureus  
infection. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2003;47:1700–1706.
243. Belley A, Neesham-Grenon E, McKay G, et  a l. 
Oritavancin kills stationary-phase and biofilm Staphylococcus aureus  cells in vitro. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2009;53:918–925.
244.
 Corey GR, Kabler H, Mehra P , et  a l. Single-dose 
oritavancin in the treatment of acute bacterial skin infections. N Engl J Med . 2014;370:2180–2190.
245. Corey GR, et  a l. Single-dose oritavancin versus 7-10 days 
of vancomycin in the treatment of gram-positive acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections: the SOLO II noninferiority study. Clin Infect Dis. 2015;60:254–262.
246. Orbactiv package insert. http://www.orbactiv.com/pdfs/
orbactiv-prescribing-information.pdf. Accessed January 6, 2018.
247. Belley A, et  a l. Effects of oritavancin on coagulation tests 
in the clinical laboratory. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2017;61:e01968–16.
248. Dunbar LM, Milata J, McClure T, et  a l. Comparison of 
the efficacy and safety of oritavancin front-loaded dosing regimens to daily dosing: an analysis of the SIMPLIFI Trial. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2011;55:3476–3484.
249. Bhavnani SM, Passarell JA, Owen JS, et  a l. 
Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationships describing the efficacy of oritavancin in patients with Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2006;50:994–1000.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.