1226
Encephalitis
J. David Beckham and Kenneth L. Tyler89 
Definition
• Encephalitis is an inflammatory process 
involving the brain parenchyma associated 
with clinical or laboratory evidence of neurologic dysfunction.
Epidemiology
• It occurs most frequently in infants younger 
than 1 year and in elderly patients older than 65, with intermediate incidence in individuals between these age extremes.
Etiology
• Up to 60% of encephalitis cases result from 
an unidentified etiologic agent.
• V iruses, bacteria, and autoimmune 
inflammation cause the majority of known encephalitis cases.Diagnosis
• A compatible febrile syndrome with evidence 
of central nervous system impairment exists (see Table 89.1).
•
 Standard cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) analysis 
and neuroimaging with magnetic resonance imaging are preferred.
•
 Specific CSF and/or serum studies for defined 
etiologies of encephalitis are warranted (see Table 89.3).
Therapy
• Early empirical use of high-dose acyclovir is 
warranted to treat possible herpes simplex encephalitis pending diagnostic studies.
•
 Antiviral therapy is indicated for the treatment 
of other herpesviruses that cause encephalitis.• Empirical antiviral therapy is recommended for 
suspected encephalitis associated with influenza.
•
 T here is currently no therapy of known benefit 
for patients with encephalitis due to arthropod-borne viruses.
Prevention
• Routine v accination for common pathogens 
and vaccination for Japanese encephalitis virus in selected travelers may prevent some cases of encephalitis.
•
 Procedures to decrease exposure to mosquito 
bites may decrease the risk for arthropod-borne virus–related cases of encephalitis.SHORT VIEW SUMMARY
Viral invasion of the central nervous system (CNS) can result in various 
clinical syndromes, including encephalitis, meningitis, myelitis, and neuritis.
1 Encephalitis  is defined as an inflammatory process of the brain 
parenchyma associated with clinical or laboratory evidence of neurologic dysfunction. The infectious causes of encephalitis, predominantly viruses, are the focus of this chapter. Noninfectious forms of encephalitis may result from inflammatory processes associated with autoimmune, 
paraneoplastic, neoplastic, or collagen vascular diseases and are discussed 
only as they affect the differential diagnosis. Focal suppurative infections of the CNS including cerebritis, brain abscess, and empyema are discussed in Chapters 90 and 91.
Patients with suspected encephalitis often have prolonged hospitaliza-
tions, may require a multitude of expensive diagnostic tests, and frequently have poor outcomes including disability and death.
2 There were an 
estimated 263,352 encephalitis-associated hospitalizations in the United States from 1998 to 2010, with an overall mortality rate of approximately 6%.
3 Total medically related charges for encephalitis-associated hospi-
talizations were an estimated $2 billion per year in 2008–2010.4 A 
diagnosis of encephalitis was most frequent in infants younger than 1 year (11.1 per 100,000) and elderly patients older than 65 years (13.2 per 100,000), with an intermediate incidence of 4.0 to 8.4 per 100,000 individuals between these age extremes.
4
In patients with encephalitis, the success in finding a specific defined 
pathogen varies widely and is influenced by factors such as season of the year, geographic location, vector exposure, patient age, patient immune status, and case definition. In general, approximately half of the patients diagnosed with encephalitis have no defined etiology 
identified despite an extensive diagnostic workup.
1,2,4 Using the Nation -
wide Inpatient Sample for 1998 through 2010, one study found that 
50% of hospitalizations due to encephalitis had no specified etiology.3
In a retrospective series reviewing etiologies of “neuroinfectious 
diseases” in hospitalized patients from an academic tertiary referral center, a specific pathogen was identified in 62.5% of patients who tested negative for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and 89% of HIV-positive patients.
2 The most common identified pathogens and conditions in HIV-negative patients were viruses (38%), bacteria (33%), Lyme disease (7%), fungi (7%), syphilis (5%), mycobacteria (5%), prions (3%), and Pneumocystis jirovecii  (2%). Among HIV-positive patients, 
the common pathogens included viruses (46%), fungi (32%), and Toxoplasma  (11%), with bacteria, tuberculosis, and syphilis accounting 
for the remaining infections (11%).
2 Among the 22 cases of viral 
encephalitis, the most commonly identified viruses in HIV-negative patients were varicella-zoster virus (VZV; 36%), herpes simplex virus (HSV; 32%), cytomegalovirus (CMV; 9%), West Nile virus (WNV; 9%), enteroviruses (9%), and hepatitis C virus (5%).
2 In HIV-positive patients, 
the viral etiologies included HIV encephalopathy (54%), JC virus–induced progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML; 31%), VZV (7.5%), and CMV (7.5%).
The California Encephalitis Project (CEP) searched for etiologies 
of encephalitis in immunocompetent hospitalized patients who met defined criteria for encephalitis, including altered consciousness for 24 hours or more and at least one of the following characteristics: fever, seizures, focal neurologic findings, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis, or consistent electroencephalogram (EEG) or neuroimaging findings.
1,5 
A confirmed or probable cause was found in only 16% of cases; these causes included viruses (69%), bacteria (20%), prions (7%), parasites (3%), and fungi (1%). The most commonly identified viruses included enteroviruses (25%), HSV-1 (24%), VZV (14%), WNV (11%), and 
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) (10%), with other agents accounting for 16%.
5 
In a prospective study in England, 42% of patients had encephalitis due 
to an infection; HSV(19%) and VZV(5%) were the most commonly identified infectious agents.
6 Acute immune-mediated encephalitis (21%) 
was a major cause of encephalitis, and unknown causes (37%) of encephalitis were still common.
CLINICAL SYNDROMES
Clinicians frequently encounter patients with fever and signs or symptoms of CNS disease in whom infectious encephalitis is part of a larger differential diagnosis. This clinical presentation is nonspecific with a broad differential diagnosis including diseases as diverse as viral 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1227Chapter 89  Encephalitisencephalitis; viral meningitis; bacterial meningitis; focal suppurative 
infections (brain abscess, subdural or epidural empyema, and cerebral venous sinus thrombophlebitis); acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM); autoimmune encephalitis; and encephalopathy. The challenge to the clinician is to differentiate among these clinical entities quickly 
and efficiently, because appropriate diagnosis and therapy can have an 
important effect on neurologic outcomes and mortality.
When evaluating a patient with possible encephalitis, it is important 
to distinguish among (1) infectious processes; (2) encephalopathy; and (3) autoimmune processes such as autoimmune encephalitis (Fig. 89.1).
7 
Encephalopathy  refers to diffuse cerebral dysfunction without associated 
inflammation of brain tissue.8 Although there are multiple causes of 
encephalopathy, the most commonly encountered causes include toxins (e.g., alcohol, licit or illicit drugs) and metabolic dysfunction (e.g., hypoxia, hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia, electrolyte disorders, renal or hepatic failure).
8 Table 89.1 lists common factors that can be used 
to differentiate encephalitis from encephalopathy. Fever, headache, peripheral leukocytosis, and CSF pleocytosis all favor encephalitis. Although some encephalopathies may produce focal neurologic signs, these are more typical in encephalitis, as are focal seizures. Neuroimaging 
studies are generally normal in patients with encephalopathy, and EEG 
abnormalities are generally limited to diffuse slowing and the occasional appearance of triphasic waves. Conversely, patients with encephalitis frequently have neuroimaging abnormalities and may show focal EEG 
Fever, headach, nuchal rigidity,
or concern for CNS infection
Altered mental status and/or
focal neurologic sign(s)
Yes
YesNo
NoBlood cultures, empirical
antibiotics, empirical acyclovir
Imaging: Head CT or MRI (preferred)Meningitis syndrome
Space-
occupying
lesionNo space-
occupying
lesionContraindications for LP:
Immunocompromised,
papilledema, focal neurologic
deficit, signs of increased
ICP, known h/o CNS lesion,
risk for bleeding from LP
Medical or
surgical
interventionFocal
parenchymal signal
abnormalitiesNo acute
intracranial
abnormality
Lumbar puncture for CSF
analysis and blood cultures
if not obtained
Other CSF profile with
negative Gram stainEncephalitis, ADEM,
autoimmune disease
No CSF pleocytosis
Consider alternate
diagnosis, CJD,
and/or repeat
LP/imagingCSF pleocytosis with
PMNs, elevated protein,
low glucose, and
positive Gram stain
Tier 1 Eval (no specific guiding history)
Viral: PCR for enterovirus, HSV, VZV,WNV IgM (consider PCR). HIV testing.Fungal: CSF CRAG, fungal cultureBacterial: Gram stain, culture, VDRLMycobacterial: CSF AFB stain, culture,TB PCR.
Bacterial
meningitis,
empyema, or
abscess
FIG. 89.1  Approach to the patient with possible central nervous system (CNS) infection. ADEM, Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis; AFB, 
acid-fast bacilli; CJD, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease; CSF, cerebrospinal fluid; CRAG, cryptococcal antigen; CT, computed tomography; HIV, human immuno -
deficiency virus; HSV, herpes simplex virus; ICP , intracranial pressure; IgM, immunoglobulin M; L P,  lumbar puncture; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; 
PCR, polymerase chain reaction; PMN, polymorphonuclear leukocyte; TB, tuberculosis; VDRL, Venereal Disease Research Laboratory; VZV, varicella zoster 
virus; WNV, West Nile virus. Tier 1 evaluation described. See text for subsequent evaluation based on exposures. TABLE 89.1  Comparison of Encephalitis  
and Encephalopathy
ENCEPHALITIS ENCEPHALOPATHY
Clinical Features
Fever Common Uncommon
Headache Common Uncommon
Depressed mental 
statusMay fluctuate Steady decline in mental 
status
Focal neurologic signs Common Uncommon
Seizures Common Uncommon
Types of seizures Generalized or focal Generalized
Laboratory Results
Complete blood count Leukocytosis common Leukocytosis uncommon
Cerebrospinal fluid Pleocytosis common Pleocytosis uncommon
Electroencephalogram Diffuse slowing and 
occasional focal 
abnormalities or periodic patternsDiffuse slowing
Magnetic resonance 
imagingMay have focal 
abnormalitiesNo focal abnormalities
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1228Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
cases are monophasic and associated with MRI findings of diffuse or 
multifocal subcortical and central white matter lesions with increased signal on T2-weighted and FLAIR sequences.
14,15 A preceding infection 
or vaccination is found in about two-thirds of pediatric cases and half of adult cases.
14,16 Studies have stressed the importance of antecedent 
infections caused by influenza A and B, hepatitis viruses, nonspecific flu-like upper respiratory tract infections, and nonviral infectious agents including Mycoplasma.
16 Postvaccination cases of ADEM are rare with 
the vaccines in general use now.
GENERAL CLINICAL APPROACH
When an infection of the CNS is considered in the differential diagnosis, the evaluation should progress efficiently to rule out important reversible causes of disease (see Fig. 89.1). Diagnostic algorithms have been developed to help standardize the clinical approach to these complex patients.
8 In cases of bacterial meningitis and herpes simplex encephalitis 
(HSE), studies have shown that delay in therapy increases morbidity and mortality.
17–19 When evaluating a patient with possible encephalitis, 
the initial diagnostic goals are to obtain CSF for appropriate studies and to perform neuroimaging, preferably MRI, unless contraindicated. In patients who are older than 60; are immunocompromised; have a history of known CNS disease; or have recent seizures, altered conscious -
ness, focal neurologic deficits, or other signs suggestive of increased intracranial pressure (ICP), neuroimaging should be completed before lumbar puncture.
18,20 In patients with suspected bacterial meningitis, 
empirical antibiotic therapy should be initiated after blood cultures are performed if lumbar puncture is delayed for neuroimaging (see Chapter 87).
18 Empirical acyclovir therapy should be initiated in patients with 
suspected encephalitis, pending results of diagnostic studies.7
MRI is more sensitive and provides more detailed diagnostic informa-
tion than computed tomography (CT) in patients with suspected CNS infections, including encephalitis, and is the procedure of choice.
21,22 
Neuroimaging studies can provide valuable clues that can assist in specific diagnosis of encephalitis. The most common abnormalities include areas of increased signal on T2 and FLAIR sequences. Diffusion-weighted imaging sequences may show abnormalities before, or that are more 
extensive than those seen in, T2 and FLAIR sequences.
21–26
CSF examination is part of basic testing in all patients with suspected 
encephalitis or meningitis.7,18 The most common CSF profile in patients 
with viral encephalitis is a lymphocytic pleocytosis with a normal glucose 
concentration and an elevated protein concentration. This pattern is similar to that seen in most cases of autoimmune encephalitis, ADEM, and several other causes of noninfectious encephalitis. The presence of 
neutrophils rather than lymphocytes as the predominant cell type occurs 
frequently in patients with WNV neuroinvasive disease or tick-borne encephalitis virus and can occur with eastern equine encephalitis and some enteroviruses (see specific virus sections for details).
Suggested CSF diagnostic studies in immunocompetent adults in 
the United States with suspected encephalitis include a CSF opening pressure, cell count and differential, protein and glucose concentrations, Gram stain, and bacterial cultures (see Fig. 89.1, tier 1 studies). Initial 
viral studies of the CSF should include polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
studies for HSV , VZV , and enteroviruses, and WNV immunoglobulin M (IgM) serology (in the appropriate season). Routine testing should also include HIV testing, CSF Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test with serum treponemal assessment, and cryptococcal antigen testing. Additional diagnostic tests, or tier 2 tests, are guided by and prioritized according to the clinical and epidemiologic clues obtained during evaluation of the patient (Table 89.2). Diagnostic algorithms for patients with encephalitis have been proposed.
8
In immunocompromised patients, CSF PCR for CMV , human 
herpesvirus type 6 (HHV-6), and in specific settings JC virus can be included in the initial evaluation depending on the underlying risk factors. A second tier of CSF diagnostic studies in immunocompetent patients might include PCR studies of the CSF for HIV , Mycoplasma 
pneumoniae,  and Mycobacterium tuberculosis ; IgM serologies for specific 
viruses such as WNV , Powassan virus, La Crosse virus (California encephalitis), St. Louis encephalitis virus, and eastern equine encephalitis virus, and Lyme disease (as geographically appropriate); acid-fast bacillus smear and culture; tuberculosis PCR; fungal cultures; Coccidioides  abnormalities or specific patterns of dysfunction that are rarely seen in encephalopathy (see later).
AUTOIMMUNE ENCEPHALITIS
Antibody-mediated autoimmune encephalitis is an important cause of encephalitis and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with encephalitis. In addition to traditional paraneoplastic autoimmune etiologies of encephalitis (e.g., anti-Ma, anti-Y o, anti-Hu), neuronal antigen targeting by antibodies in the CNS is increasingly 
identified as an important cause of encephalitis and was recently 
reviewed.
9 About 70% of patients develop prodromal symptoms including 
headache, fever, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or upper respiratory tract symptoms. Within a few days to 2 weeks, patients can develop psychologi -
cal symptoms including anxiety, insomnia, delusions, mania, or paranoia. Short-term memory loss is common but may be underrecognized owing 
to rapid disintegration of language and reduction in verbal output, 
which can progress to frank mutism. In more advanced stages of disease, patients develop decreased responsiveness, autonomic instability, dyskinesias, dystonia, rigidity, and opisthotonic postures.
In an analysis of patients younger than 30 years and enrolled in the 
CEP , anti–N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor encephalitis and viral encephalitis were noted to be equally important etiologies of encephalitis.
10 CSF in patients with anti–NMDA receptor encephalitis 
was characterized by a mild pleocytosis (median white blood cell count, 
23 ce lls/mL) in the CSF with normal protein and glucose levels. The 
findings of neuroimaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were often abnormal but nonspecific, with no characteristic pattern or defining imaging results. When brain MRI findings were abnormal (50%), changes included T2 and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) signal hyperintensity in the hippocampi, cerebellar or cerebral cortex, fron -
tobasal and insular regions, basal ganglia, brainstem, and rarely the spinal cord. EEGs in patients with anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis were often abnormal, most commonly due to diffuse or focal slowing patterns with occasional superimposed epileptic activity.
Autoimmune encephalitis is diagnosed by demonstrating the presence 
of specific antineuronal antibodies in the serum and/or the CSF in a patient with characteristic features of autoimmune encephalitis and negative findings on evaluation for infectious etiologies. Guidelines have been established to facilitate diagnosis of autoimmune limbic encephalitis 
in the absence of detectable autoantibodies.
9 Studies have also shown 
that viral causes of encephalitis such as HSV may be associated with 
production of autoreactive antibodies.11 It is important to remember 
that the diagnoses of autoimmune encephalitis and viral encephalitis are not mutually exclusive; patients with HSV and other viral encephalitides may also have or develop autoantibodies and patients in whom auto -
antibodies are detected may also have an associated viral encephalitis. 
The list of autoantibodies associated with autoimmune encephalitis is 
rapidly expanding; the most commonly identified antibodies are those against the NMDA receptor; leucine-rich, glioma-inactivated 1 (LGI-1) protein; α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) 
receptor (AMPAR); and γ-aminobutyric acid B receptor (GABA
BR1). 
Although patients with autoimmune encephalitis generally have antibod -
ies present in serum, in the case of anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis, CSF autoantibodies may be present in the absence of serum antibodies.
Treatment of autoimmune encephalitis is largely based on immu -
nosuppressive regimens. Response to treatment for autoimmune encephalitis is variable, and relapse can occur in up to 24% of patients.
12 
In female patients with NMDA receptor encephalitis, evaluation for an underlying ovarian teratoma and removal, if a tumor is found, is indicated. First-line immunotherapy consists of corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIGs), or plasma exchange. In patients without a 
tumor, delayed diagnosis, or poor response to first-line therapy, second-
line immunotherapy with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, or both is indicated. Despite the difficulty in treating these patients, the mortality rate is low, yet long-term neurologic outcomes are variable with potential for severe, fixed neurologic impairment.
It is also important to consider postinfectious encephalomyelitis or 
ADEM when evaluating patients with possible encephalitis. ADEM is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the CNS that follows an infection or vaccination, typically after a delay of 1 to 4 weeks.
13 Most 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1229Chapter 89  EncephalitisTABLE 89.2  Possible Etiologic Agents of Encephalitis Based on Epidemiology and Risk Factors
EPIDEMIOLOGY OR RISK FACTOR POSSIBLE INFECTIOUS AGENTS
Travel
Caribbean islands, Central America, South 
AmericaRabies virus; eastern equine encephalitis virus; western equine encephalitis virus; Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus; 
St. Louis encephalitis virus; Rocio virus; Zika virus; chikungunya virus; Dengue virus
Australia Murray Valley encephalitis virus; Japanese encephalitis virus; Hendra virus
Southeast Asia, China Japanese encephalitis virus; tick-borne encephalitis; Nipah virus; Me Tri virus; Semliki Forest virus
India, Nepal Rabies virus; Japanese encephalitis virus; chikungunya virus
Africa Rabies virus; WNV; Rift Valley fever virus
Middle East WNV
Europe WNV; tick-borne encephalitis; louping ill virus; Toscana virus
Russia Tick-borne encephalitis; Powassan virus
Insect Contact
Mosquitoes WNV; Zika virus; Eastern equine encephalitis virus; Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus; St. Louis encephalitis virus; 
Murray Valley encephalitis virus; Japanese encephalitis virus; California encephalitis group; chikungunya virus
Ticks Tick-borne encephalitis; Powassan virus; louping ill virus
Animal Contact
Old World monkeys Herpesvirus B
Birds WNV; eastern equine encephalitis virus; Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus; St. Louis encephalitis virus; Murray Valley 
encephalitis virus; Japanese encephalitis virus
Rodents Eastern equine encephalitis virus (South America); Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus; tick-borne encephalitis; 
Powassan virus; La Crosse virus (chipmunks and squirrels); LCMV; monkeypox
Horses Eastern equine encephalitis virus; western equine encephalitis virus; Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus; Hendra virus
Swine Japanese encephalitis virus; Nipah virus
Dogs Rabies virus
Bats Rabies virus; Nipah virus
Raccoons Rabies virus
Skunks Rabies virus
Sheep and goats Louping ill virus
Human Contact
Person-to-person transmission HSV (neonatal); VZV; Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus (rare); poliovirus; enteroviruses; measles virus; mumps virus; 
rubella virus; EBV; HHV-6; herpesvirus B; WNV (transfusion, transplantation, breast-feeding); HIV; rabies virus 
(transplantation); influenza virus
Season
Late summer, early fall All agents transmitted by mosquitoes and ticks (see above); enteroviruses
Winter Influenza virus; LCMV
Recreational Activities
Sexual contact HIV; Zika virus
Swimming Enteroviruses
Camping, hunting All agents transmitted by mosquitoes and ticks (see above)
Spelunking Rabies virus
Occupation
Physicians and health care workers VZV; HIV; influenza virus
Veterinarians Rabies virus
Laboratory workers WNV; HIV
Workers exposed to Old World primates Herpesvirus B
Workers exposed to horses Hendra virus
Ingestions
Unpasteurized milk Tick-borne encephalitis
Age
Neonates HSV-2; CMV; rubella virus; Zika virus
Infants and children Eastern equine encephalitis virus; Murray Valley encephalitis virus (rapid in infants); influenza virus; La Crosse virus
Elderly Eastern equine encephalitis virus; St. Louis encephalitis virus; WNV
Continued
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1230Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
limbic encephalitis from HSV , HHV-6 infection, a paraneoplastic etiology, 
or autoimmune limbic encephalitis. Seizures occur most frequently in encephalitides that involve the cortex (e.g., HSV encephalitis) and less commonly with flavivirus infections (e.g., WNV , St. Louis encephalitis virus, JEV) that involve predominantly deep gray matter structures 
such as the basal ganglia and thalamus. Brainstem involvement can 
occur with HSV , enterovirus 71 infections, and flaviviruses (e.g., WNV), whereas cerebellitis is associated with EBV , VZV , mumps, and flavivirus (e.g., WNV , St. Louis encephalitis virus) infections. Flaviviruses (e.g., WNV , JEV), enteroviruses D-68 and 71, and poliovirus can cause disease in the anterior horn of the spinal cord, resulting in a poliomyelitis and the clinical syndrome of acute flaccid paralysis.
The frequency of CN palsies varies greatly in patients with encepha -
litis. CN palsies are common in several nonviral infections that can 
mimic viral encephalitis (e.g., Lyme disease, syphilis, tuberculosis, 
fungal infections) and most commonly produce peripheral facial palsy (CN VII), vestibular or cochlear dysfunction (CN VIII), or paralysis of extraocular movements (CN III, IV , or VI). CN palsies are generally infrequent in viral encephalitis, unless there is concomitant brainstem involvement. However, WNV infection and VZV vascu-lopathy have been associated with palsies of various CNs (see specific  
sections).
The epidemiologic features of different neurotropic viruses vary 
widely and often help guide diagnostic testing (see Table 89.2). Immu-nocompromised patients are at increased risk for neuroinvasive viral infections resulting from VZV , CMV , HHV-6, JC virus (PML), and WNV . Similarly, older individuals have an increased risk of neuroinvasive disease after infection with many arboviruses ( arthropod-bo rne viruses ), 
including WNV , St. Louis encephalitis virus, and eastern equine encephalitis virus, and have an increased incidence of HSV encephalitis. Prenatal infection with subsequent pregnancy loss or devastating postnatal complications including microcephaly, intracranial calcifications, 
ventriculomegaly, and developmental abnormalities frequently occurs 
after infection with CMV and Zika virus (ZIKV).
Seasonal incidence is characteristic of all arbovirus infections in the 
United States. Most arboviruses are transmitted by a mosquito vector during summer and early fall months in patients living in areas of epizootic transmission of virus. By contrast, infection with some viruses, including lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and influenza, are more frequent during late fall and winter months. Many arboviruses are geographically restricted, and residence or a recent travel history 
can provide important clues to potential exposures. WNV is now endemic 
throughout the United States and causes sporadic seasonal epidemics (www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dvbid/westnile/). Other arboviruses are also geographically restricted in the United States, and Powassan virus has emerged as an increasingly common cause of encephalitis (Fig. 89.2). A history of travel to specific foreign countries where other arboviruses are endemic should be specifically sought, and diagnostic studies should be adjusted appropriately.
The general physical examination also provides important clues that 
assist in the diagnosis of encephalitis. Skin rashes are common and characteristic for VZV , WNV , ZIKV , some enteroviruses, measles, and rubella and may occur with various nonviral infections, including Lyme complement fixation titer; and antibody titer. Other studies to consider based on epidemiologic risk profiles include PCR studies of the CSF for Rickettsia, Ehrlichia,  and Anaplasma ; CSF Histoplasma  antigen; and 
CSF enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Western blot for Borrelia burgdorferi.  Such tests are appropriate in areas where these 
agents are endemic or with potential exposure history.
CSF studies should be supplemented with serum diagnostic studies. 
Common tests include HIV serology and plasma HIV RNA viral load; EBV serologies (IgG and IgM antibodies against viral capsid antigen and IgG antibodies against early and nuclear antigens); Mycoplasma  
serologies; syphilis serology; Borrelia  serologies
a; Rickettsia, Ehrlichia,a 
and Anaplasma  serologiesa; serum cryptococcal antigena; serum antibodies 
against Coccidioidesa; and urine Histoplasma  antigen.a
An EEG can be helpful in evaluating the type and frequency of 
seizures and the presence of nonconvulsive status epilepticus. The degree and severity of slowing is a sensitive indicator of the presence and severity of metabolic encephalopathies. Specific EEG patterns may suggest an increased likelihood of specific diagnoses (see “ Diagnostic 
Tests ”).
Clinical Manifestations
The clinical presentation of patients with viral encephalitis can be heterogeneous, necessitating a high index of suspicion in any patient with signs of infection and CNS dysfunction. The syndrome of acute viral encephalitis is characterized by fever, headache, and altered mental status.
7 These may be combined with focal neurologic deficits correspond -
ing to areas of the CNS that are infected and injured, which vary with specific pathogens. This constellation of signs and symptoms is not unique for encephalitis and can occur in various other diseases, including viral and bacterial meningitis, brain abscess, cerebritis, subdural and 
epidural empyema, and septic cerebral venous or sinus thrombosis. The 
frequency of specific signs and symptoms varies among different types of encephalitis and is discussed more completely in the sections on individual viral pathogens.
The presence of specific sets of neurologic signs and symptoms by 
themselves does not allow unequivocal diagnosis of a specific cause of encephalitis. Findings of neurologic examination can increase the likelihood of some etiologic agents and reduce the likelihood of other pathogens, facilitating and guiding confirmatory diagnostic testing. The 
most common focal neurologic signs associated with encephalitis include 
hemiparesis, aphasia, ataxia, cranial nerve (CN) palsies, myoclonus, 
and seizures. Other important neurologic findings include loss of temperature and vasomotor control because of autonomic dysfunction and either diabetes insipidus or the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) resulting from hypothalamic 
dysfunction.
Signs of parkinsonism (bradykinesia, rigidity, rest tremor) may suggest 
infection with a flavivirus (e.g., WNV , St. Louis encephalitis virus, 
Japanese encephalitis virus [JEV]), and frontotemporal signs such as aphasia, memory impairment, and personality changes may suggest EPIDEMIOLOGY OR RISK FACTOR POSSIBLE INFECTIOUS AGENTS
Other
Unvaccinated VZV; Japanese encephalitis virus; poliovirus; measles virus; mumps virus; rubella virus
Recent vaccination ADEM
Transfusion and transplantation CMV; EBV; WNV; HIV; tick-borne encephalitis virus; rabies virus; LCMV
Immunocompromised VZV; CMV; HHV-6; WNV; HIV; JC virus
Agammaglobulinemia Enteroviruses
ADEM, Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis; CMV, cytomegalovirus; EBV, Epstein-Barr virus; HHV, human herpesvirus; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; HSV, herpes 
simplex virus; LCMV, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus; VZV, varicella-zoster virus; WNV, West Nile virus.
Modified from Tunkel AR, Glaser CA, Bloch KC, et  al. The management of encephalitis: clinical practice guidelines by the Infectious Disease Society of America. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2008;47:303–327.TABLE 89.2  Possible Etiologic Agents of Encephalitis Based on Epidemiology and Risk Factors—cont’d
aBased on geographic setting and exposure history.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1231Chapter 89  Encephalitis
FIG. 89.2  Incidence of select arboviruses in the United States.  (A) Annual incidence of West Nile virus neuroinvasive cases by county from 1999 
to 2016. Number of neuroinvasive cases of (B) St. Louis encephalitis virus, (C) eastern equine encephalitis virus, and (D) La Cross virus reported to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from 2007 to 2016. (Modified from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. www.cdc.gov/westnile, 
www.cdc.gov/sle, www.cdc.gov/easternequineencephalitis, www.cdc.gov/lac.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1232Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
infection have only meningeal enhancement or abnormalities seen only 
on diffusion-weighted images.
Patients with JEV and St. Louis encephalitis virus have MRI abnor -
malities similar to those reported for WNV . In one study, MRI was more sensitive than CT for JEV infections, showing abnormalities in 
more than 90% of adults and children.
33 The most commonly involved 
areas were the thalamus (88%), basal ganglia (41%–54%), and brain -
stem,33,34 but some patients can have medial temporal lesions resembling 
those seen in HSV encephalitis.35 Patients infected with enterovirus 71 
may show increased T2 and FLAIR signal intensity in the midbrain, 
pons, and medulla. Congenital and neonatal ZIKV infection can result in a wide spectrum of abnormalities including microcephaly, intracranial calcifications, ventriculomegaly, and developmental abnormalities.
Cerebrospinal Fluid Analysis
Cerebrospinal Fluid Profile
CSF examination is an essential part of the diagnosis of encephalitis and 
should be performed in all patients unless absolutely contraindicated.7 
The most typical CSF profile in patients with viral encephalitis is a CSF pleocytosis with a predominance of lymphocytes, a normal glucose level, and an elevated protein level. In cases of flavivirus infection, particularly WNV , neutrophils may predominate,
36 a finding also 
associated with eastern equine encephalitis. In one large series, the median percentage of neutrophils in patients with WNV encephalitis was 45%, and 37% of cases had a neutrophil predominance.
36 By 
contrast, patients with HSV encephalitis typically have 5% to 24%  
neutrophils.17,37
The magnitude of CSF pleocytosis varies greatly in different forms 
of encephalitis. In the classic studies of biopsy-proven HSV encephalitis by the Collaborative Antiviral Study Group (CASG), patients had a median CSF white blood cell count of 130 cells/mm
3; 68% of patients 
had 50 to 500 cells/mm3. Only 4% of patients had fewer than 5 cells/
mm3, and only 8% had more than 500 cells/mm3.38 Similar CSF profiles 
were noted in a study of HSV encephalitis confirmed with CSF PCR. In that study, no patient with HSV encephalitis had fewer than 5 cells/mm
3, and 69% of HSV encephalitis patients had 50 to 500 cells/mm3.28 
Two later PCR-based studies reported that patients had a mean of 202 to 237 leukocytes/mm
3.17,37 In a large series of cases with serologically 
proven WNV encephalitis, the mean CSF cell count was 227 cells/mm3 
(95% confidence interval [CI], 133–321).36 Patients with mumps 
meningoencephalitis had higher mean cell counts compared with WNV patients, with a mean of 540 ± 460 cells/mm
3 and an average of 56% 
lymphocytes.39
Although pathologic evaluation of HSV encephalitis often shows 
the presence of hemorrhagic necrosis, CSF red blood cell counts do not differ significantly between patients with biopsy-proven HSV encephalitis and nonherpetic encephalitis.
38,40 Glucose concentrations 
are normal in more than 95% of patients with encephalitis caused by HSV and flaviviruses (WNV , St. Louis encephalitis virus) but may be low in some cases of CMV , mumps, and eastern equine encephalitis infection.
38,39,41,42
Polymerase Chain Reaction and Antibody Studies
For some neuroinvasive viruses, PCR of the CSF has high sensitivity and specificity, making it the diagnostic study of choice for identifying a specific viral etiology.
43 HSV PCR of the CSF has a sensitivity of 98% 
and a specificity of 94%.30,44 The sensitivity of PCR for detection of HSV 
encephalitis varies with the timing of the study. In the CEP , three patients with negative CSF HSV PCR test results performed within 72 hours of symptom onset had positive test results 4 to 7 days later.
45 By contrast, 
in a study using nested PCR to detect HSV DNA in CSF , 100% (18 of 18) of patients tested within 72 hours of onset of neurologic symptoms had amplifiable DNA.
46 CSF HSV PCR sensitivity declines as a function 
of duration of antiviral therapy; 98% of studies remain positive in patients treated for 7 days or less, followed by a decrease in sensitivity with ongoing treatment to 47% at 8 to 14 days and 21% after 15 days of antiviral treatment.
44 These results reflect the progressive decline in CSF 
viral load that occurs as a function of duration of acyclovir therapy. With use of quantitative PCR, acyclovir-treated patients had negative PCR results 19 ± 6 days (range, 9–28 days) after initiation of acyclovir disease, syphilis, mycoplasmosis, rickettsiosis, anaplasmosis, and ehrlichiosis. Oral mucosal ulcerations may suggest herpangina and an 
enterovirus. Ocular findings including chorioretinitis occur with WNV , CMV , and Bartonella  infection (cat-scratch disease). Parotitis, orchitis, 
and oophoritis can occur with mumps and LCMV infections.
Diagnostic Tests
When a patient develops encephalitis, specific diagnosis is usually based on CSF studies. Diagnostic studies obtained from samples outside the CNS, including serum serologies, serum nucleic acid amplification tests, serum or urine antigen tests, and cultures of body fluids (blood, nasopharyngeal swab, sputum, and urine), may be useful in establishing 
the presence of a particular infectious process. Despite the presence of 
a systemic infection, additional testing may be required to establish a definitive cause of CNS disease. General diagnostic studies such as a complete blood count and markers of inflammation (e.g., erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein) may support the presence of an infectious or inflammatory process but do not help determine a specific etiology. Chest radiography may suggest an infectious cause, such as influenza, mycoplasmosis, tuberculosis, or coccidioidomycosis. It may also suggest the presence of cancer or other noninfectious causes 
of encephalitis.
Neuroimaging
Unless specifically contraindicated, all patients with suspected encephalitis 
should undergo MRI. The sensitivity and specificity of different patterns of neuroimaging abnormalities for the diagnosis of specific forms of encephalitis have not been formally defined. Different forms of encepha -
litis may produce distinctive MRI patterns that can provide clues 
suggestive of particular agents, which can guide more definitive confirma -
tory tests.
Temporal lobe and limbic abnormalities are seen in HSV , HHV-6, 
and autoimmune encephalitis, whereas subependymal enhancement 
occurs with CMV ventriculitis. MRI often reveals multifocal hemorrhagic infarctions and demyelinating lesions in cases of VZV vasculopathy.
27 
Predominant demyelination on MRI studies suggests PML caused by JC virus infection, ADEM, or encephalitis mimics such as multiple sclerosis or other noninfectious CNS inflammatory diseases. PML lesions typically do not enhance or do so faintly at lesion margins, whereas 
MRI lesions associated with ADEM typically uniformly enhance acutely 
and become nonenhancing over time.
In HSV encephalitis, MRI is significantly more sensitive than CT, 
revealing temporal lobe abnormalities in 90% of PCR-proven HSV cases (Fig. 89.3).
28 In one study, 79% of patients with HSV encephalitis had 
abnormalities on their initial CT scan, but 100% of the 17 patients whose CT scan was initially normal and who had repeat scans had abnormalities an average of 5 days later.
28 MRI abnormalities of the 
temporal lobe were shown in 89% of patients with HSV; 36% also had frontal lobe involvement. Only 9% of adult patients with HSV encephalitis had MRI with abnormalities exclusively outside the frontotemporal area, although patterns in infants and children may be 
more variable. In 57% of HSV encephalitis patients, the abnormalities 
were predominantly unilateral.
17 Characteristic MRI changes occur early 
in the course of HSV encephalitis and include high–signal intensity lesions on T2-weighted and FLAIR images involving the medial and inferior temporal lobes with extension into the insula. MRI abnor -
malities can also include the orbitofrontal gyri and inferomedial frontal 
lobes.
29,30 Diffusion-weighted imaging abnormalities may antedate 
and be more extensive than abnormalities seen on T2 and FLAIR  
sequences.21–26
CT scans are almost invariably normal early in WNV infection. 
MRI abnormalities are less frequent in cases of WNV than in cases of 
HSV encephalitis. In two series involving 34 patients, initial MRI studies were normal in approximately one-third of patients. MRI abnormalities associated with WNV encephalitis included areas of increased T2 and 
FLAIR and low T1 signal that involved the basal ganglia, thalamus, and 
brainstem.
31,32 The MRI abnormalities in WNV infection are generally 
distinct from the abnormalities seen in HSV encephalitis, although in one series about 20% of patients with WNV encephalitis had abnormali -
ties limited to the mesial temporal lobes.
32 Some patients with WNV 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1233Chapter 89  Encephalitis
HSV-specific CSF antibody testing to detect intrathecal synthesis of 
antibody can complement PCR testing when specimens are obtained 
later in the course of illness. After the first week of disease, the sensitiv -
ity of CSF HSV PCR declines (see earlier), whereas the sensitivity of CSF antibody testing increases. In one series of patients with HSV 
encephalitis, none of 36 CSF samples taken later than 30 days after onset 
of neurologic symptoms had amplifiable DNA, but all had detectable HSV  
antibody.
46
PCR detection of VZV DNA in the CSF has a specificity of greater 
than 95%, but sensitivity can decrease after 2 to 3 weeks follow -
ing presentation. In cases of VZV CNS vasculopathy, CSF should also be tested for intrathecal synthesis of VZV-specific antibody (CSF–to–serum IgG ratio) because these studies are complementary  
to PCR.
51
PCR for EBV or HHV-6 DNA in the CSF can be a valuable addition 
to the evaluation of a patient with viral encephalitis.52,53 However, the therapy.47 Neither the initial CSF HSV viral load nor its maximal level 
predicts outcome47,48; however, one study found that patients with 
extremely high copy number ( >100,000 copies HSV DNA per milliliter) 
were more likely to have a reduced level of consciousness, CT scan lesions, and poor outcomes compared with patients with less than 100,000 DNA copies/mL.
49
The results of HSV PCR should be interpreted in the context of the 
timing of the study and the pretest probability of disease. In patients with a high pretest probability of HSV encephalitis (e.g., 60%), a positive PCR result increases the posttest probability to 99%, and a negative study result reduces it to 6%. In patients with a moderate pretest prob -
ability of HSV (e.g., 35%), the posttest probability for a positive test result is 98%, and probability for a negative test result decreases to 2%. In patients with low pretest probability of HSV encephalitis (e.g., 5%), the posttest probabilities are 84% for a positive test result and 0.2% for a negative test result.
50
A B
D C
FIG. 89.3  Typical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes associated with viral encephalitis. (A) Herpes simplex virus type 1 encephalitis 
with increased T2-weighted signal in bilateral temporal lobes. Increased signal does not extend beyond the insular cortex (black arrow) but does involve 
the cingulate gyrus (white arrow).  (B), Varicella-zoster virus vasculopathy on proton-density MRI scan with multiple areas of infarction in both hemispheres 
(arrows). (C) West Nile virus encephalitis with increased signal on FLAIR MRI image of the basal ganglia (arrows). (D) Enterovirus encephalitis with increased 
signal intensity on FLAIR MRI image in both hemispheres, greater on the right, in the posterior cerebral hemisphere (arrow). (Modified from Gilden DH, 
Mahalingam R, Cohrs RJ, Tyler KL. Herpesvirus infections of the nervous system. Nat Clin Pract Neurol. 2007;3:83; and Debiasi RL, Tyler KL. West Nile 
virus meningoencephalitis. Nat Clin Pract Neurol . 2006;2:264.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1234Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
Electroencephalography
EEGs in patients with viral encephalitis are frequently abnormal, but 
the results only rarely provide a clue to a specific etiologic diagnosis. The most common abnormality is the presence of generalized slowing.
63 
Focal EEG abnormalities, most commonly involving the temporal lobes, are seen in 75% to 80% of patients with HSV encephalitis.
28,38 
Common abnormalities include the presence of frontotemporal slowing, temporal sharp or spike activity, and periodic lateralizing 
epileptiform discharges at a rate of 2 to 3  H z.38 None of these patterns 
is diagnostic of HSV encephalitis. Periodic lateralizing epileptiform discharges, previously considered characteristic of HSV encephalitis, can also be seen in other types of encephalitis (e.g., La Crosse/California virus encephalitis).
64 Appearance and resolution of EEG abnormali-
ties do not correlate well with clinical presentation or resolution of  
disease.30,65
EEG abnormalities have been reported in approximately 60% to 
90% of patients with WNV encephalitis. The most common finding is the presence of diffuse irregular slow waves, although the presence of anteriorly predominant slowing may suggest the diagnosis.
66 Triphasic 
slow waves, generally considered more characteristic of metabolic encephalopathies, have also been reported in WNV encephalitis.
67
Other Diagnostic Studies
In general, CSF culture is of limited value in cases of viral encephalitis and is not recommended for routine clinical application.
7 Occasionally, 
acute and convalescent serum studies suggest a viral etiology and may be required in rare cases when CSF evaluation is impossible. Additional studies, such as PCR assay of gastrointestinal samples for enteroviruses, have been used as supportive diagnostic tests for viral encephalitis.
63 
Other supportive tests include PCR or antigen detection of respira -
tory secretions for adenoviruses, parainfluenza, or influenza viruses. Fluid from skin vesicles should be examined with PCR for evidence of enteroviruses, VZV , or HSV . Brain biopsy is rarely used today because 
of the availability and accuracy of PCR and antibody tests. Brain biopsy 
still serves a diagnostically useful function, however, in unexplained cases of encephalitis associated with progressive neurologic deterioration.
7
Management
The clinical status of patients with encephalitis can deteriorate rapidly; patients should be closely monitored in an intensive care unit or equivalent setting. Viral encephalitis caused by arboviruses or herpes -
viruses does not require patient isolation for infection control. Respiratory or contact isolation should be considered in cases of encephalitis of 
unknown etiology or in patients with possible bacterial meningitis or 
a skin rash. Universal precautions should be applied to handling all body fluids, including CSF , blood, saliva, respiratory secretions, stool, and urine because their potential infectivity varies with the inciting pathogen.
Patients with encephalitis may develop increased ICP . Patients with 
potential signs of increased ICP , such as decreased level of consciousness, 
papilledema, or cerebral edema, often require continuous ICP monitoring. Clinical trials studying the role of corticosteroids in encephalitis patients 
have been inconclusive, and further studies are necessary; however, in cases of encephalitis with increased ICP , corticosteroids may be used to treat cerebral edema.
63,68,69 Additional measures to reduce increased 
ICP acutely include hyperventilation and administration of intravenous (IV) mannitol.
Patients with certain types of encephalitis are likely to be at increased 
risk of seizures, and seizures can contribute to transiently increased 
ICP . There is no proven clinical value for primary prophylactic anti -
convulsant therapy in patients with encephalitis. Patients with seizures 
are generally treated urgently with lorazepam or diazepam followed by maintenance therapy with IV fosphenytoin. Patients may require continu -
ous EEG monitoring because clinical observation in obtunded patients may not reliably detect seizures.
Patients with encephalitis can experience autonomic dysfunction 
resulting in hypotension or cardiac arrhythmias and should undergo close monitoring of blood pressure and electrocardiogram until clinically 
stable. If the airway is compromised because of alterations in results must be interpreted with caution and correlated with the clinical 
presentation, imaging, and serology results because latently infected, HHV-6– or EBV-positive mononuclear cells in the CSF can produce false-positive results.
CSF PCR is extremely specific ( >95%) for diagnosis of PML in 
immunocompromised patients with appropriate clinical and radiographic 
findings. The sensitivity of CSF JC virus PCR is quite variable in different 
settings (50%–80%). For example, patients with PML associated with use of immunomodulatory drugs such as natalizumab frequently have a low JC virus CSF copy number and those with HIV-associated PML a higher copy number, with assay sensitivity paralleling copy number. Higher CSF JC viral loads correlate with worse outcomes in patients with HIV-associated PML.
54 A positive JC virus serum antibody finding 
is of limited diagnostic use because approximately 55% to 85% of individuals are seropositive in serum by adult life, although the absence of detectable anti–JC virus antibodies may decrease the likelihood of PML in the differential diagnosis unless a patient is severely immuno -
compromised and unable to mount an antibody response. In some studies, increasing titers of CSF or serum JC virus antibodies have immediately preceded the onset of PML.
In the case of flaviviruses including WNV , CSF PCR is less sensitive 
(57%–70%) compared with detection of CSF IgM antibodies for diagnosis of neuroinvasive disease.
55 An exception may occur in immunocom -
promised patients, such as bone marrow and solid organ transplant recipients, who have a prolonged, high-titer viremia, and can have positive serum or CSF PCR studies, or both, when antibody tests are negative or seroconversion is delayed.
56,57
In a study of blood donors with asymptomatic WNV infection 
detected with positive results of serum nucleic acid amplification testing, peak serum RNA levels occurred at 5 to 6 days after an infected mosquito bite, IgM seroconversion occurred 3.9 days after RNA detection (95% CI, 3.4–4.4), and IgG seroconversion occurred at 7.7 days after RNA 
detection (95% CI, 6.9–8.5).
58 CSF IgM WNV antibodies are diagnostic 
of acute WNV infection and neuroinvasive disease; their presence is 
indicative of intrathecal synthesis because IgM molecules cross the blood-brain barrier poorly owing to their large size. CSF IgM antibodies are found in approximately 80% of patients with WNV neuroinvasive 
disease within 1 week of onset of symptoms, increasing at a rate of 
about 10% per day after symptom onset.
59 It is unclear how long CSF 
WNV IgM antibodies persist. In one small study, 60% of patients with WNV encephalitis had persisting CSF IgM antibody for as long as  
500 days.
60
Future diagnostic approaches.  Recent advances in nested PCR 
testing using film-array technology now allow for multiplex testing of patient samples against a panel of pathogens. Clinical laboratories are increasingly using multiplex PCR testing for multiple clinical samples including respiratory samples, stool samples, and CSF samples. A mul -
ticenter study of a multiplex diagnostic CSF panel found that the assay exhibited high specificity for all tested pathogens but exhibited variable sensitivity for several that ranged from 0% to 100%.
61 Some variability 
in sensitivity was due to low numbers of pathogens in the study groups. 
Also, inclusion of targets such as HHV-6 that can produce positive test 
results in situations that are not likely due to HHV-associated disease 
may create problems with interpretation. The current commercially 
available CSF arrays are more applicable for pediatric populations, and further development of these arrays will likely provide new diagnostic approaches for cases of adult encephalitis. In addition to multiplexed assays, next-generation sequencing (NGS) assays of CSF samples are being evaluated and applied to clinical samples.
62 As the cost for sequencing 
technology continues to decrease and processes are simplified, future diagnostic approaches may include routine metagenomic NGS for unbiased detection of pathogens. To date this technology has proven to be most useful in immunocompromised patients rather than as a global 
diagnostic tool. It is important to recognize that the major advantage 
of this approach is its “unbiased” nature—meaning its ability to enable detection of a wide variety of pathogens. Conversely, NGS may be less sensitive than individually targeted PCR assays for specific pathogens and requires meticulous attention to technique to avoid contamination from reagents or other ambient sources.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1235Chapter 89  EncephalitisVIRAL ETIOLOGY OF ENCEPHALITIS
General features of the basic biology, pathogenesis, clinical features, 
epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of particular agents are discussed in the individual chapters devoted to these agents and have been reviewed.
70 Brief summaries of relevant issues related to 
encephalitis are provided in the subsequent sections, and additional encephalitis viruses not discussed in the text are summarized in Table 89.3. Table 89.4 presents the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA)–US Public Health Service (USPHS) grading system for ranking  
recommendations.consciousness, intubation should be considered to protect the airway and prevent aspiration. If clinically indicated, empirical antimicrobial agents should be initiated in patients with suspected bacterial infection or bacterial meningitis.
Few randomized controlled trials have assessed the efficacy of antiviral 
treatments or immunomodulatory therapy in patients with viral encephalitis, other than acyclovir therapy in patients with HSV encepha -
litis. Current recommended treatments for viral encephalitis are largely based on case reports or small clinical case series. (See the Herpesviruses  
section later for more information on acyclovir therapy.)
TABLE 89.3  Other Important and Emerging Causes of V iral Encephalitis
VIRAL ETIOLOGY EPIDEMIOLOGY CLINICAL FEATURES DIAGNOSIS TREATMENT
Adenovirus Children and 
immunocompromised patientsAssociated pneumonia PCR or culture of brain biopsy 
specimen or CSFSupportive
Chikungunya virus Epidemic setting; India and 
Southeast Asia; mosquito 
vectorFebrile syndrome with rash and 
arthralgiasCSF and serum IgM and PCR Supportive
Hendra virus Australia; fruit bat reservoir; 
humans infected by secretions of batsFever, drowsiness, seizures, and coma 
associated with a flulike prodromeContact Special Pathogens Branch at 
CDCSupportive
HIV Worldwide epidemic; recent 
high-risk behaviorFever, headache-associated acute 
retroviral syndrome; commonly associated with HIV dementiaHIV serology testing and HIV 
quantitative PCR of CSF; MRI may reveal T2 or FLAIR hyperintense lesions in periventricular regions and centrum semiovaleCombination antiretroviral 
therapy
Influenza Fall and winter seasonal 
predilection; worldwide 
distribution; rare complication 
in childrenAssociated febrile syndrome, 
myalgias, respiratory prodrome; 
may be associated with bilateral 
thalamic necrosisViral culture, antigen detection, and 
PCR in respiratory secretionsOseltamivir (III-C); poor 
outcomes
Japanese encephalitis Mosquito vector, swine and bird 
reservoirs; most common cause of epidemic viral encephalitis throughout Southeast Asia and AustraliaSeizures and parkinsonian features 
common; acute flaccid paralysis; case-fatality rate of 20%–30%Serum IgM or acute/convalescent IgG; 
CSF IgM or antigen; MRI can show T2 and FLAIR hyperintense lesions at basal ganglia, thalami, and midbrainSupportive; formalin-
inactivated mouse brain–derived vaccine available for prevention
JC virus Cell-mediated 
immunodeficiencies (AIDS) and immunomodulating therapy 
(e.g., natalizumab)Cognitive dysfunction, limb 
weakness, gait disturbance, visual 
loss, focal neurologic findingsCSF PCR (sensitivity 50%–70% for 
PML); MRI shows ≥1 nonenhancing, 
confluent subcortical white matter 
hyperintensity on T2 and FLAIR 
sequencesCombination antiretroviral 
therapy in AIDS patients or reversal of 
immunosuppression
Louping ill virus Tick-borne disease; found in 
Ireland, Scotland, and England; associated with livestockUsually mild febrile illness with 
associated confusion and stupor in some; deaths are rareSerum IgM ELISA or a fourfold 
increase in IgG antibody in paired acute and convalescent seraSupportive
LCMV (see Chapter 
167)Rodent-borne virus infects 
humans with exposure to 
infected urine, feces, saliva, or blood; severe disease in 
immunocompromised patientsFever, headache, leukopenia, and 
thrombocytopenia; encephalitis 
characterized by personality changes, increased ICP , paraplegia, 
and cranial nerve and sensory 
dysfunctionCSF and serum IgM ELISA Supportive
Me Tri virus Mosquito-borne; Southeast Asia; 
transmitted among livestockFever, rash, seizures, lethargy, and 
meningismusCSF PCR and IgM ELISA, serology Supportive
Monkeypox Prairie dog exposure Vesiculopustular rash on head, 
extremities, palms, and soles; adenopathy; encephalitis is rare, 
with confusion, somnolence, and 
diminished reflexesSkin biopsy, CSF, and serum IgM, 
serology; MRI showing T2 and 
FLAIR hyperintense lesions of the pons, thalamus, and subparietal 
cortexSupportive care; consider 
cidofovir or vaccinia 
immune globulin (III-C)
Mumps virus Unvaccinated Previous parotitis followed by 
headaches, vomiting, seizures, altered consciousness, and 
sensorineural hearing lossFourfold IgG increase in paired acute 
and convalescent sera, culture of 
saliva, CSF culture and PCRSupportive
Murray Valley 
encephalitis virusMosquito vector; bird reservoir; 
Australia and New GuineaRapid onset in infants with 
case-fatality rate of 15%–30%IgG antibody testing with fourfold 
increase in paired acute and convalescent seraSupportive
Nipah virus Exposure to infected pigs; 
pteropid bat reservoir; exposure to infected bats or bat roosting sites; close contact to infected humans; 
South AsiaFever, headache, altered 
consciousness, dizziness, vomiting, 
myoclonus, dystonia, areflexia, hypotonia; pneumonitisFourfold IgG increase in paired acute 
and convalescent sera; CSF culture; MRI may show T2 focal hyperintensity of subcortical and deep white matter of cerebral 
hemispheres; contact Special 
Pathogens Branch at CDCSupportive; ribavirin (III-C)
Continued
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1236Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
VIRAL ETIOLOGY EPIDEMIOLOGY CLINICAL FEATURES DIAGNOSIS TREATMENT
Powassan virus Tick vector; rodent reservoir; 
New England states, Canada, 
and AsiaCase-fatality rate of 10%–15% and 
focal neurologic findings in >50% 
of patientsSerum and CSF IgM; IgG antibody 
fourfold increase in acute and convalescent paired seraSupportive
Rift Valley fever virus Sub-Saharan Africa, Egypt, Saudi 
Arabia, Yemen; mosquito 
vector and livestock reservoir; humans infected via exposure to infected animal secretions1% of infected humans develop 
encephalitis with headache, meningismus, and altered consciousnessELISA antigen detection or culture 
from serum and PCR; contact Special Pathogens Branch at CDCSupportive
Rocio virus Cause of epidemic encephalitis 
in Brazil; mosquito vectorFever, headache, confusion, motor 
impairment, and cerebellar syndrome; sequelae include ataxia, 
dysphagia, incontinence, and 
memory problemsFourfold IgG increase in acute and 
convalescent seraSupportive
Rubella virus Unvaccinated adults Rash followed by headache, dizziness, 
behavioral changes, and seizuresCSF IgM; fourfold IgG increase in 
paired acute and convalescent seraSupportive
Snowshoe hare virus Mosquito-borne; North America; 
children predominantly affected by encephalitisFever, headache, confusion, and 
lethargy; low mortality and rare long-term neurologic sequelaeCSF and serum IgM ELISA or fourfold 
increase in IgG acute and convalescent seraSupportive
Tick-borne encephalitis 
virusTick vector; rodent reservoir; 
unpasteurized milk; Eastern 
Russia, central Europe, Far EastAcute encephalitis; acute flaccid 
paralysisSerum IgM or fourfold increase in IgG 
antibody in paired acute and convalescent seraSupportive
Toscana virus Sandfly vector; infection during 
summer months in 
Mediterranean countriesFever, headache, meningismus, and 
meningoencephalitis with coma, lethargy, hydrocephalus, and 
hepatosplenomegalyCSF PCR; serum and CSF IgM; 
fourfold increase in IgG acute and 
convalescent seraSupportive
Vaccinia Most cases are postinfectious; 
rare event after vaccinationAbrupt encephalopathy with focal 
neurologic signs 2–30 days 
postvaccinationCSF PCR or IgM Supportive; corticosteroids 
if postvaccination (III-C); consider cidofovir or 
vaccinia immune globulin
Zika virus Mosquito-borne, epidemic 
febrile rashFever, rash, congenital infection PCR of serum and ZIKV-specific IgM Supportive
AIDS, Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; CDC, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; CSF, cerebrospinal fluid; ELISA, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; FLAIR, 
fluid-attenuated inversion recovery; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; ICP , intracranial pressure; LCMV, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus; MRI, magnetic resonance 
imaging; PCR, polymerase chain reaction; PML, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
Modified from Tunkel AR, Glaser CA, Bloch KC, et  al. The management of encephalitis: clinical practice guidelines by the Infectious Disease Society of America. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2008;47:303–327.TABLE 89.3  Other Important and Emerging Causes of V iral Encephalitis—cont’d
TABLE 89.4  Infectious Diseases Society of 
America–US Public Health Service Grading System 
for Ranking Recommendations
CATEGORY, GRADE DEFINITION
Strength of Recommendation
A Good evidence to support recommendation 
for use
B Moderate evidence to support 
recommendation for use
C Poor evidence to support recommendation 
for use
Quality of Evidence
I Evidence from ≥1 randomized, controlled trial
II Evidence from ≥1 well-designed clinical trial, 
without randomization; from cohort or 
case-control analytical studies (preferably from >1 center); from multiple time series; 
or from dramatic results from uncontrolled 
experiments
III Evidence from opinions of respected 
authorities, based on clinical experience, descriptive studies, or reports of expert 
committees
Modified from Tunkel AR, Glaser CA, Bloch KC, et  al. The management of 
encephalitis: clinical practice guidelines by the Infectious Disease Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2008;47:303–327.Herpesviruses
The Herpesviridae are ubiquitous viruses found in multiple animal 
species. Herpesviruses that cause neuroinvasive disease in humans include HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV , CMV , EBV , HHV-6, HHV-7, HHV-8, and simian herpesvirus B.
Herpes Simplex Virus Types 1 and 2
Herpes Simplex Virus Pathogenesis
The exact mechanism by which HSV-1 and HSV-2 invade the CNS is 
unknown. Primary HSV-1 infection frequently causes gingivostomatitis, which is followed by axoplasmic transport of virus to the trigeminal sensory ganglion, where latency can be detected in virtually all sero -
positive individuals.
30,71 Trigeminal ganglion reactivation of HSV-1 
usually results in retrograde axonal transport and the development of herpes labialis, but rarely reactivation may result in spread via the tentorial nerves to the anterior and medial cranial fossa.
72 It has been 
suggested, on the basis of animal inoculation studies, that the olfactory tract could also provide a potential route of neuroinvasion for HSV-1. In the case of primary infection, virus could invade the olfactory bulbs through the nose and spread via olfactory pathways to the orbitofrontal 
and medial temporal lobes.
30 At autopsy, approximately one-third of 
HSV-seropositive individuals with no known neurologic illness have 
PCR-amplifiable HSV DNA in the CNS, including the olfactory bulbs, hippocampus, and brainstem.
73 If this represents latent virus, which 
has not yet been convincingly established, reactivation from CNS sites could provide another mechanism for development of HSV  
encephalitis.
Cell death and tissue injury in HSV encephalitis likely result from 
direct viral killing of neurons and immune-mediated mechanisms of cell death. Several studies have shown that apoptosis plays a role in 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1237Chapter 89  Encephalitis(see Fig. 89.3A).28 EEG patterns are not specific for HSV encephalitis, 
but as noted earlier, focal EEG abnormalities have been reported in 
81% of biopsy-proven HSV encephalitis cases38 and temporal lobe 
abnormalities occur in 75% of PCR-proven cases.28 A more recent study 
found that MRI was abnormal in 84% of HSV encephalitis patients, and 91% of patients had an abnormal EEG.
79
Herpes Simplex Virus Encephalitis: Treatment  
and Outcomes
The treatment and factors influencing prognosis for HSV encephalitis 
were discussed earlier. IV acyclovir (10  m g/kg every 8 hours) is the 
drug of choice for treatment of HSV encephalitis. The recommended duration of acyclovir therapy is 14 to 21 days according to the IDSA guidelines, and the mean duration of therapy in many studies is 21 days.
7 In the original CASG trial of adenine arabinoside for treatment 
of HSV encephalitis, the mortality in the 10 placebo-treated patients was 70%. Of the 3 survivors, 1 had minor, 1 had moderate, and 1 had severe sequelae.
85 A randomized placebo-controlled phase III clinical 
trial comparing long-term oral valacyclovir with placebo after completion of standard IV acyclovir treatment for HSE found no benefit to ongoing oral antiviral therapy for HSE.
86 Similarly, there is no proven benefit of 
adjunctive steroid therapy for treatment of HSV encephalitis, although uncontrolled studies and some experimental animal models suggest possible benefit.
Guidelines from IDSA advise that acyclovir should be initiated in 
all patients with suspected encephalitis, pending results of diagnostic studies (level III-A recommendation; see Table 89.4).
7 The goal of 
empirical treatment before diagnosis is to increase the likelihood of initiating treatment at an earlier stage in patients who ultimately prove to have HSV encephalitis. There is no proven benefit of acyclovir therapy in patients with non-HSV encephalitis (see discussion of specific 
herpesviruses for virus-specific details). The benefit of “empirical” use 
of acyclovir in patients with suspected encephalitis, rather than in patients with established HSV encephalitis, has not yet been established in a randomized controlled clinical trial.
40 Several studies have now shown 
that initiation of acyclovir within 2 days of hospitalization is associated with more favorable outcomes in patients with HSV encephalitis.
17,87,88 
Multiple factors contribute to unfavorable outcomes, including advanced age, comorbid conditions, symptom duration before hospitalization, severely depressed consciousness, extent of brain involvement at MRI, and duration of hospitalization.
17,87–89
A retrospective study found that only 29% of patients meeting 
specified criteria for suspected encephalitis (fever, neuropsychiatric abnormality, CSF pleocytosis, and negative Gram stain) received empirical acyclovir in the emergency department (median time to administra -
tion, 1.5 hours; 95% CI, 0–31.1 hours). The remaining 71% received 
acyclovir after inpatient admission (median time, 16 hours; 95% CI, 
7.5–44 hours).
90 Five of 24 patients studied were eventually diagnosed 
with HSV encephalitis; only 2 of the 5 diagnosed with HSV encephalitis received acyclovir in the emergency department. In a large French study, a mean delay of 2 days ± 2.7 occurred between hospital admission and 
initiation of acyclovir therapy, and a mean of 5.5 days ± 2.9 lapsed 
between reported onset of symptoms and initiation of treatment.
17 These 
studies suggest that delays in administration of empirical antiviral therapy  
are common.
Several factors influence the prognosis of HSV encephalitis, including 
patient age, level of consciousness, immune suppression, and duration 
of clinical encephalitis before initiation of acyclovir therapy (measured 
by day of symptom onset or day of hospitalization). In the CASG trials of vidarabine versus acyclovir, age was stratified into patients younger than 30 years and patients 30 years of age or older.
40 Mortality was 6% 
(1 of 18) in acyclovir-treated patients younger than age 30 years but increased to 36% (5 of 14) in the older age group. It was subsequently reported that mortality in acyclovir-treated patients increased in a stepwise fashion from 11% ( <2 years old) to 22% (22–59 years old) to 
62% (≥60 years old).
91
Similarly, level of consciousness at presentation, as evaluated accord -
ing to GCS score, influenced mortality. In the original trial comparing vidarabine and acyclovir, mortality was 25% (2 of 8) in patients with a GCS score less than 6 compared with 17% (4 of 24) in patients with neuronal cell death in human HSV encephalitis.
74,75 Studies in humans 
and mice have shown that the host’s immune response may contribute to HSV-induced neuronal injury and death during encephalitis.
76–78 
Genetic defects in TLR3-interferon and interferon responses have been shown to predispose to HSV encephalitis in several studies and may be particularly important in individuals with recurrent disease or in families with multiple cases of herpetic encephalitis.
HSV is the most common cause of sporadic encephalitis in the 
United States, with an incidence of hospitalization ranging from 1 to 1.2 per 100,000 population per year; it accounted for approximately 3300 hospitalizations per year from 1998 to 2010.
4 A recent multinational 
study in immunocompetent adults found that HSV-1 accounted for 92% of HSV encephalitis cases, with the remainder caused by HSV-2.
79 
In patients with HSV in the CNS without evidence of encephalitis, largely meningitis cases, HSV-1 accounted for 45% of cases and HSV-2 accounted for the remainder. Although HSV encephalitis is the most commonly identified specific cause of viral encephalitis, it still accounts 
for only approximately 10% of all encephalitis cases.
30,80,81 HSV encepha -
litis has no seasonal or gender predilection. Cases occur in a bimodal 
age distribution with approximately one-third of individuals affected at younger than 20 years, and half of cases occur in individuals older than 50 years.
30
Herpes Simplex Virus Encephalitis:  
Clinical Presentation
Patients with HSV encephalitis present with fever (90%–100%), altered consciousness (97%–100%), and headache (70%–81%).
17,38,82 Other 
common clinical features of HSV encephalitis include disorientation (70%–76%), seizures (40%–68%), behavior or personality change (41%–87%), memory disturbance (24%–45%), motor deficit (30%–40%), 
and speech disturbances (31%–59%).17,28,38,40 A more recent multina -
tional study of patients with HSV neuroinvasive disease found that fever (83%), change in consciousness (80.2%), headache (59.9%) and disorientation (58.3%) were the most common symptoms associated with encephalitis.
79 Mild or otherwise atypical presentations of HSV 
encephalitis have been reported in 14% to 17% of PCR-proven cases. These patients typically have mild alteration in level of consciousness and an absence of focal features at neurologic examination (although focal features may be present on EEG or neuroimaging studies).
28,83,84 A 
“normal” initial neurologic examination has been reported in less than 6% of patients.
17 In the original CASG trial comparing vidarabine and 
acyclovir, 29% of patients had a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 6 or less, 41% had a GCS score of 7 to 10, and 30% had a GCS score of 10 or greater.
40 In later studies using CSF HSV PCR rather than brain 
biopsy for diagnosis, the level of consciousness of patients has been higher because of earlier detection. In the study by Domingues and associates,
28 
78% of patients had a GCS score of 12 or greater, including 28% with a  
GCS score of 15.
Herpes Simplex Virus Encephalitis: Diagnosis
PCR of HSV DNA in the CSF is the procedure of choice for diagnosis 
of HSV encephalitis44,46 (see earlier for full discussion). Compared with 
brain biopsy, CSF HSV PCR has a sensitivity of 98% and a specificity 
of 94%, and more recent PCR tests for HSV exhibit sensitivity >95% 
and specificity >99%.44,79 PCR results need to be evaluated in light of 
the timing of test performance. False-negative PCR results may also occur in bloody CSF specimens as a result of the presence of porphyrin compounds derived from degradation of heme in erythrocytes or during early stages of presentation, notably the first 48 hours after symptom 
onset.
46
The results of diagnostic tests including CSF examination, neuroimag -
ing, and EEG in HSV encephalitis were discussed in earlier sections. 
As noted, 96% to 100% of patients have a CSF pleocytosis ( >5 white 
blood cells/mm3) with a lymphocytic predominance. The protein is 
usually elevated (mean and median, 80–85  m g/dL), and the glucose 
level is normal in 95% of cases.17,28,40 Initial CT scan can be abnormal 
in 40% to 79% of patients.17 The most commonly observed abnormalities 
have been found to occur in the temporal (53%) or temporal and frontal lobes (36%).
17 MRI is more sensitive than CT and reveals abnormalities 
of the temporal lobes in 89% of cases confirmed with CSF HSV PCR 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1238Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
Varicella-Zoster Virus
Varicella-Zoster Virus Pathogenesis and Central Nervous System Disease
Primary VZV infection (chickenpox) occurs mainly in children 1 to 9 
years old, and seroprevalence by adult life is greater than 95%. After primary infection, the virus establishes latency in dorsal root ganglia. Reactivation results in herpes zoster (shingles). VZV CNS infection (encephalitis or vasculopathy) can occur during primary infection or 
after viral reactivation from latency.
During primary infection with VZV , acute cerebellar ataxia develops 
in 1 in 400 children younger than 15 years old.
103 It is unknown whether 
this clinical presentation is due to direct viral infection in the CNS104 
or represents a postinfectious immune-mediated state.105 The clinical 
presentation is characterized by onset of gait ataxia, tremor, vomiting, 
and headache occurring 1 to 3 weeks after onset of chickenpox. CSF shows a lymphocytic pleocytosis with elevated protein. Imaging findings are often normal, and patients tend to have a full recovery. A study of 
VZV encephalitis cases found that a variety of VZV genotypes still 
cause neuroinvasive disease despite introduction of varicella vaccine, and vaccine genotypes are rarely associated with neuroinvasive infection in the CNS.
106
VZV infection can cause myelitis associated with shingles or, more 
rarely, in the absence of rash (“zoster sine herpete”). In immunocom-petent patients, myelitis is focal and typically manifests as weakness in myotomes corresponding to the dermatomes of the associated shingles outbreak (segmental zoster paresis). Immunocompetent 
and immunocompromised patients may develop more severe zoster 
myelitis.
107 In these cases, myelitis follows the rash by a median of 
12 days, with maximal deficit being reached an additional 10.5 days later. The most common neurologic manifestations are weakness (75%), usually involving the leg ipsilateral to the rash, and less com -
monly paraparesis or paraplegia. Sensory abnormalities are common 
(approximately 50%) and can include dysesthesias, paresthesias, loss 
of pain-temperature or position-vibration sense or less commonly a sensory level to all modalities, or Brown-Séquard syndrome. Sphincter disturbances occur in approximately 25%. Some patients may have recur -
rent episodes of myelitis.
108 About 75% of patients have a lymphocytic 
CSF pleocytosis with elevated protein (approximately 70%) and normal glucose (approximately 95%) levels. MRI may show increased T2 signal lesions in the cord in association with cord swelling.
108 Diagnosis can 
be confirmed with demonstration of VZV DNA in CSF with PCR, or intrathecal anti-VZV antibody synthesis (increased CSF–to–serum  
IgG ratio).
108
Varicella-Zoster Virus Vasculopathy
Modern studies suggest that most cases of VZV “encephalitis” are actually caused by VZV CNS vasculopathy, which most commonly involves large vessels (granulomatous arteritis) in immunocompetent patients and small vessels in immunocompromised patients.
108–113 However, a 
case series found that only 4 of 20 patients with VZV encephalitis 
developed a vasculopathy, and 14 of the 20 patients had nonvascular, 
nonspecific, or normal neuroimaging results.114 In elderly immuno -
competent patients, large vessel vasculopathy follows an episode of trigeminal herpes zoster by a few weeks to months with an average time to onset of 4 months, resulting in a mortality rate of 25%.
115 Most 
cases are monophasic, but relapses can occur. Patients develop myriad symptoms and acute focal deficits that vary with the location of the lesions. MRI findings are abnormal in 97%, with multifocal hyperintense lesions on T2-weighted FLAIR images (see Fig. 89.3B).
115 Lesions are 
typically located in the white matter or at the gray-white matter junction. Typical CSF findings include lymphocytic pleocytosis (67%), elevated protein level, and normal glucose level.
Small vessel VZV vasculopathy classically occurs in immunocom -
promised patients, resulting in a clinical syndrome of altered mental status changes, headache, focal deficits, and seizures.
115 The typical rash 
of herpes zoster is often absent. Neuroimaging shows evidence of multifocal infarcts, and CSF analysis reveals mild pleocytosis and a normal-to-mild elevation in CSF protein. In a retrospective study of VZV vasculopathy, 70% of patients had abnormalities at magnetic 
resonance angiography or traditional angiography.
115 Fifty percent had a GCS score greater than 6.40 It was subsequently noted that mortality 
was 0% in acyclovir-treated patients with a GCS score greater than 
10 compared with 25% in patients with GCS score of 10 or less.91 
Patients with a GCS score of 7 to 10 and early institution of acyclovir therapy have improved outcomes compared with patients with lower GCS scores or late institution of acyclovir therapy.
91 In one large study, 
patients treated more than 2 days after hospital admission had a 3.1-fold (95% CI, 1.1–9.1) greater likelihood of a poor outcome compared with patients treated earlier.
17 In the vidarabine and acyclovir comparative 
study, the mortality rate in patients treated within 4 days of onset of fever, headache, and focal neurologic findings was 0% compared with a mortality of 35% in patients with symptoms of disease for more than 4 days.
40 Additional factors reported to influence prognosis include the 
Simplified Applied Physiology Score (SAPS II),17 presence of lesions 
on an initial CT scan, and immunocompromised state.92 Studies have 
indicated that the absolute value of the HSV PCR viral load in the CSF has no prognostic implications.
93,94 The role of management of 
increased ICP in HSV encephalitis has not been studied systematically, but use of aggressive medical and surgical therapy has been reported to  
be beneficial.
95
HSV-2 Central Nervous System Disease
When evaluating patients with HSV neuroinvasive infections, the clinician must remember that HSV can also cause recurrent meningitis and myelitis. Although HSV-1 is the most common cause of sporadic, viral encephalitis, HSV-2 is the most common cause of recurrent, benign lymphocytic meningitis.
96 Patients with recurrent HSV-2 meningitis 
are more likely to be female (69%) and have a mean age of 38 years.96,97 
Patients present with acute onset of headache, fever, photophobia, and meningismus. Episodes last for a mean of 6 days, and patients have an average of four recurrences.
96,97 CSF is remarkable for lymphocytic 
pleocytosis (range, 86–1800), mildly elevated protein (range, 60–258), and normal glucose.
98 Diagnosis is made with HSV PCR of the CSF 
and is positive in 85% of patients with recurrent meningitis.97 Neuroimag -
ing is normal in the majority of patients (83%), although some patients develop nonspecific changes (14%) or meningeal changes (3%).
98 Of 
patients with CSF that was positive for HSV with PCR, 95% of cases are caused by HSV-2. Although recurrent HSV meningitis is a benign, self-limiting illness, acyclovir was used in the past for suppression of recurrences.
96 However, a double-blind, randomized trial demonstrated 
that suppressive therapy with valacyclovir was equivalent to placebo in suppressing HSV meningitis recurrences.
99 After 1 year of study drug 
exposure, patients were followed for an additional year off study drug, and patients exposed to valacyclovir had a significantly elevated risk (hazard ratio, 3.29) of recurrent HSV meningitis compared with the placebo group.
Herpes Simplex Virus Myelitis
HSV-1 and HSV-2 cause myelitis, but HSV-2 most commonly causes myelitis in adults. Most cases manifest as a monophasic illness (about 20% are recurrent) associated with acute onset of paralysis in the legs 
or less commonly the arms, reduced or absent reflexes, hyperreflexia with extensor-plantar responses, decreased sensation, and decreased anal 
tone or urinary incontinence with sacral dermatome involvement.
100–102 
Severe forms of HSV myelitis include acute necrotizing myelopathy, which occurs in patients with underlying disease such as HIV , diabetes, or malignancy. CSF examination shows lymphocytic pleocytosis, elevated protein, and normal glucose concentration.
100,101 MRI typically exhibits 
intramedullary fusiform or spindle-shaped areas of increased T2-weighted signal.
100,101 Diagnosis is made with HSV PCR in the CSF , but measuring 
intrathecal synthesis of HSV-specific immunoglobulins may be helpful in the diagnosis of recurrent cases.
101 There are no controlled trials 
of antiviral therapy for HSV myelitis; however, there are anecdotal 
reports of success with IV acyclovir (10  m g/kg every 8 hours) for at 
least 14 days followed by oral antiviral drugs (valacyclovir, 1  g t hree 
times daily) until symptoms resolve. Despite therapy, the prognosis is extremely variable. In one small study of nine patients with HSV myelitis, one-third (three patients) made a complete recovery, whereas the remaining patients had residual sequelae including paraplegia  
and tetraplegia.
101
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1239Chapter 89  Encephalitisby PCR. CMV PCR in the CSF of AIDS patients with CMV encephalitis 
has a reported sensitivity of 62% to 100% and specificity of 89%  
to 100%.121
Patients with HIV-associated CMV ventriculoencephalitis have a 
median survival of 42 days.122 In a prospective study of 146 HIV patients 
with neurologic symptoms, the median survival was 50 days in  
patients with a positive CMV CSF PCR result compared with 205 days in patients with a negative CMV CSF PCR result ( P < .001).
123
Recommended initial treatment for CMV neuroinvasive disease 
includes the combination of ganciclovir (5  m g/kg IV every 12 hours) 
and foscarnet (60  m g/kg IV every 8 hours or 90  m g/kg IV every 12 
hours) (category III-B).7 Initial therapy is generally maintained for 2 
to 3 weeks and is often followed by lower-dose maintenance therapy. Efforts should be made to reduce the degree of host immunosuppression whenever possible.
Epstein-Barr Virus
Primary EBV infection can be asymptomatic or can result in a mono -
nucleosis syndrome characterized by cervical lymphadenopathy, exudative pharyngitis, and splenomegaly. Significant CNS disease occurs in less than 1% of acute EBV infectious mononucleosis cases and can manifest with myriad CNS syndromes, including meningitis, encephalitis, 
transverse myelitis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome.
124 The frequency of 
EBV as a cause of encephalitis is unknown.
Patients with EBV encephalitis present with altered consciousness, 
seizures, and focal neurologic deficits. In a study of 21 children ( <17 
years old) with EBV CNS infection, only 1 patient had concomitant infectious mononucleosis.
124 Other patients had a nonspecific presen -
tation with fever (81%), headache (66%), and seizures (48%). CSF 
shows a pleocytosis (mean, 58 cells/mm3) with mildly elevated protein 
(mean, 48  m g/dL) and normal glucose levels. In one series, 60% of 
patients had a neutrophil predominance.124 About 80% of patients 
have MRI abnormalities, which can take the form of increased signal on T2 and FLAIR sequences that most commonly involve the basal ganglia and thalamus, temporal lobes, and subcortical white matter. In some patients, lesions are consistent with the lesions seen in ADEM 
or acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis. EEG abnormalities occur 
in approximately 75% of patients, most commonly in the form of generalized slowing, although patients may also have focal slowing, frequent intermittent rhythmic delta-wave activity, or epileptiform  
discharges.
Diagnosis of EBV CNS disease includes serology testing including 
IgM and IgG antibodies to viral capsid antigens and antibodies against Epstein-Barr early antigen (EA) and Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen (EBNA), and CSF PCR testing. Diagnosis of neuroinvasive disease is 
typically made with EBV PCR of the CSF or demonstration of intrathecal 
antibody synthesis (CSF EBV viral capsid antigen IgM or elevated EBV viral capsid antigen IgG CSF-to-serum ratio). PCR testing in the CSF needs to be interpreted with caution because false-positive results due to presence of EBV DNA in CSF mononuclear cells resulting from other conditions may occur. A study of patients with EBV DNA in 
the CSF at PCR found evidence of EBV encephalitis in patients with 
stem cell transplantation, but positive EBV DNA in the CSF of other 
patients did not appear to be causally related and was often associated 
with another infection in the CNS.
125 EBV serology consistent with 
acute infection (e.g., EBV viral capsid antigen IgM in the absence of IgG, elevated IgG antibody titers against early antigen but not nuclear antigen) supports, but does not definitively establish, the presence of EBV CNS disease. A study of 28 patients with CNS EBV infection 
found that patients with encephalitis had a high EBV PCR copy number 
(4.2 log
10 copies/mL) and high leukocyte counts (143 cells/mm3)  
in the CSF .52
There are no controlled trials evaluating therapy in patients with 
EBV CNS infection; however, some case reports suggest that ganciclovir treatment improved outcomes in patients with EBV meningoencepha -
litis.
126 Steroids have shown benefit in uncontrolled trials in some patients, 
including patients with evidence of increased ICP (category III-C).7 
Mortality of EBV encephalitis is 10% or less. Prognosis for survivors is excellent; 90% return to normal function, and the remaining 10% have only mild residual deficits.
124evidence of small vessel and large vessel involvement. Angiography reveals focal narrowing or occlusion of involved vessels.
Diagnosis of VZV vasculopathy can be made by demonstration of 
intrathecal synthesis of VZV-specific antibody or by demonstration of VZV DNA in CSF with PCR.
115 Because VZV can cause a vasculopathy, 
some studies suggest that serum VZV PCR assay is sensitive and can help support a potential diagnosis of VZV CNS vasculopathy. At autopsy, involved vessels show focal inflammation with multinucleated giant cells, VZV antigen in endothelial cells, and Cowdry type A inclusion 
bodies in infiltrating histiocytes.
116
Varicella-Zoster Virus Meningitis
VZV can produce an aseptic meningitis that can occur in the absence 
of rash. The frequency of VZV meningitis is uncertain; however, in one large series it accounted for 8% of cases. Patients typically have a lymphocytic pleocytosis in the CSF with elevated protein and normal glucose.
117 Neuroimaging findings are usually normal. Diagnosis can 
be made by showing VZV DNA in CSF with PCR. It has been reported that VZV viral loads are lower in patients with meningitis (mean, 4000 copies/mL) compared with patients with encephalitis (mean, 72,000 copies/mL).
118 It has been suggested that the severity of VZV CNS 
disease may correlate with CSF viral load. Patients with fewer than 10,000 VZV DNA copies/mL have a milder course compared with patients with higher viral loads.
118
Varicella-Zoster Virus Central Nervous System 
Disease Treatment
No randomized controlled clinical trials are available to guide therapy 
for VZV CNS infection, but treatment with high-dose IV acyclovir 
(10–15  m g/kg every 8 hours for 10–14 days) has been recommended 
for severe disease.7,111,112 Some experts also recommend a short course 
of adjunctive corticosteroid therapy (e.g., prednisone, 60–80  m g/day 
for 3–5 days).109,111 In a noncontrolled retrospective review of VZV 
vasculopathies, 66% of patients who received acyclovir alone and 75% who received acyclovir and steroids improved or stabilized.
115 
IDSA guidelines7 indicate that acyclovir therapy is recommended 
(category III-B), that ganciclovir can be considered an alterna -
tive (category III-C), and that adjunctive corticosteroids can be  
considered (category III-B).
Cytomegalovirus
CMV is a ubiquitous human virus, with a 90% to 100% antibody seroprevalence in adults. It is transmitted through various routes, including body fluids such as saliva and genital secretions, blood transfusions, and organ transplants. CMV transmission typically occurs during childhood or early adulthood owing to common transmission 
via body fluid exposure. CMV causes acute infection and reactivation 
disease from latent virus. Primary infection with CMV is often clinically silent but may produce a mononucleosis-like syndrome. Neurologic complications from CMV infection in adults include retinitis, encephalitis, polyradiculomyelopathy, and neuropathy, all of which occur predomi -
nantly in immunocompromised hosts. CMV is also an important cause of congenital infections (see Chapter 137).
CMV encephalitis most commonly occurs in patients with a com-
promised immune system because of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or organ transplantation; however, CMV neuroinvasive infections can infrequently occur in immunocompetent patients.
119 In 
patients with AIDS, CMV encephalitis occurs when the CD4+ cell count 
is less than 50 cells/mm3. Patients may develop a nonspecific febrile 
encephalopathy with or without focal signs. Some patients present with acutely altered mental status, and others present with a slowly progressive ventriculoencephalitis with CN palsies. Findings at MRI of the brain in AIDS patients with CMV encephalitis are variable, but hyperintense 
signal in the periventricular white matter is often seen on T2-weighted 
images and ependymal enhancement on contrast-enhanced T1-weighted images.
120 The CSF in patients with CMV encephalitis is nonspecific 
with mild lymphocytic pleocytosis and mild elevation in CSF protein level. In patients with CMV polyradiculopathy, the CSF profile is distinc -
tive, with neutrophilic pleocytosis, low glucose, and elevated protein. Diagnosis is confirmed through amplification of CMV DNA from CSF 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1240Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
should be initiated at exposure rather than delayed until onset of 
symptomatic disease.
There are no controlled clinical trials studying regimens for post -
exposure prophylaxis (PEP), treatment of symptomatic individuals who have not yet developed CNS symptoms, or treatment of patients with 
CNS disease. PEP refers to administration of antiviral drugs in individuals 
who have been potentially exposed to virus but who are not known to be infected. The regimen recommended for PEP in asymptomatic 
individuals is oral valacyclovir (1  g o rally three times a day for 14 days).141 
In patients with symptomatic disease who do not have CNS signs or 
symptoms, either acyclovir (12.5–15  m g/kg every 8 hours) or IV 
ganciclovir (5  m g/kg every 12 hours) is recommended. In individuals 
with CNS symptoms, it has been suggested that ganciclovir treatment is preferable.
141 Therapy is generally continued for a minimum of 14 
days and is extended if symptoms have not resolved or cultures remain positive. When IV therapy is discontinued, patients should be monitored for viral shedding (cultures of conjunctivae and oral mucosa) initially at weekly intervals and later less frequently (one to two times a year). 
Lifelong suppressive therapy with oral valacyclovir is usually 
recommended.
141
Vector-Borne Viral Infections
Vector-borne viral infections are important causes of viral encephalitis in the United States as a result of the endemic establishment of WNV circulation. With the emergence of ZIKV in the Americas, close monitor -
ing for continued emergence and spread of new neuroinvasive arthropod-borne viruses needs to be a priority. For example, the upper Midwest 
and Northeast of the United States have seen a significant increase in 
Powassan virus infections. Powassan virus is a member of the genus Flavivirus  and related to WNV . This virus is spread by Ixodes  ticks and 
causes disease similar to WNV (see later). The most common vectors that transmit encephalitic viruses in the United States are mosquito species
142 and tick species.143 These arthropods and the viruses they 
transmit constitute a common group of viruses called arthropod-bo rne 
viruses, or arbo viruses. Viruses included in this group belong to four 
families: Togaviridae, Flaviviridae, Bunyaviridae, and Reoviridae; each specific arbovirus within a family is commonly transmitted by a specific 
species of mosquito or tick.
Encephalitic Arbovirus Pathogenesis
Many encephalitic arboviruses maintain an enzootic (animal) cycle that 
does not involve human infection. However, some arboviruses, such as ZIKV , can establish an urban or epizootic cycle of transmission that involves humans as an amplifying host. After a bite from an infected mosquito, the virus replicates in dendritic cells and macrophages in 
local tissue and lymph nodes, resulting in a primary viremia that dis -
seminates virus to end organs including the CNS. The ability of an 
arbovirus to invade the CNS (neuroinvasiveness) is determined by multiple viral and host factors.
144 Proposed routes of arboviral CNS 
entry include penetration of the cerebral microvasculature after infection of endothelial cells, diapedesis of infected leukocytes, penetration of 
fenestrated capillaries in structures such as the choroid plexus, and transneuronal spread of virus.
When the virus has penetrated the blood-brain barrier, arboviruses 
can directly infect and cause death of neurons. Several studies have 
shown that apoptosis is an important mechanism of WNV neuron cell death and CNS injury.
145–147 Immune responses also contribute to 
clearance of virus and immunopathologically mediated neuronal cell death.
West Nile Virus (Also See Chapter 153)
WNV is an arbovirus in the family Flaviviridae, genus Flavivirus,  along 
with other important human viral pathogens including dengue virus, ZIKV , yellow fever virus, JEV , and many others. WNV infection is endemic in the United States and is the second most common cause of viral encephalitis in the United States after HSV (see Fig. 89.2A). 
Since its emergence in New Y ork City in 1999 and through 2016, approximately 50,000 cases of WNV infection have been reported in the United States, including 18,810 cases (42%) of neuroinvasive disease and 1765 (4%) deaths (www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dvbid/westnile). The Human Herpesvirus 6
HHV-6 is a ubiquitous viral infection of lymphocytes that causes a spectrum of disease on primary infection, including exanthem subitum (roseola) in infants, febrile seizures, and lymphadenopathy syndromes. Virus then becomes latent and can periodically reactivate to cause  
disease.
HHV-6 is increasingly recognized as a cause of encephalitis in 
immunocompromised adults,
127,128 particularly patients with alloge -
neic bone marrow transplants (hematopoietic stem cell trans -
plants).129,130 The predominant amount of data in hematopoietic stem 
cell transplant patients, which consists of small case series, case reports, and small cohort studies, supports a diagnosis of HHV-6 encephalitis in hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients with encephalitis, without other causes of neurologic disease, and CSF posi-
tive for HHV-6 with PCR assay.
131 In hematopoietic stem cell trans -
plant patients, HHV-6 causes limbic encephalitis, characterized by 
short-term memory loss, insomnia, and seizures.132 MRI exhibits 
characteristic increased hyperintense signal on T2 images of the medial temporal lobe.
133 Diagnosis is made through demonstration of 
HHV-6 DNA in the CSF . In a case-control study, HHV-6 PCR from the CSF of 22 bone-marrow transplant patients with neurologic symp -
toms was compared with 107 immunocompromised controls without neurologic symptoms.
134 Because HHV-6 is latent in lymphocytes, 
interpretation of PCR-positive samples in blood and in the CSF can be complicated by confounding detection of latent HHV-6 DNA in lymphocytes. Thus interpretation of PCR results should be placed in the context of the disease presentation and the degree of host immune 
suppression.
HHV-6 is most commonly associated with focal encephalitis in bone 
marrow transplant patients. Estimates of its frequency have ranged from 
6.5% in specimens from the CASG HSV encephalitis treatment trials
135 
to 0.4% (4 per 1000) in the CEP .127 Patients typically have CSF lymphocytic 
pleocytosis, elevated protein level, and normal glucose level. MRI may be normal or may show temporal lobe abnormalities. Diagnosis is typically made with CSF PCR or serum serology. Sensitivity and specificity of these tests are unknown. It has been suggested that high CSF viral loads support the diagnosis.
127 The possibility that latent HHV-6 DNA 
in mononuclear cells may result in false-positive PCR test results may complicate diagnosis.
Treatment of HHV-6 encephalitis is similar to that of CMV CNS 
infections. In general, HHV-6 is not responsive to acyclovir therapy 
but is responsive to ganciclovir and foscarnet. Although HHV-6 is 
sensitive to cidofovir therapy, this drug is not recommended for treatment of HHV-6 CNS disease because of the high risk of adverse events and uncertainty about its degree of CNS penetration. There are no controlled clinical trials studying antiviral therapy for HHV-6 limbic encephalitis. Case studies have suggested that therapy with ganciclovir or foscarnet can be successful in bone marrow transplant recipients.
136,137 Other 
reports have found that antiviral treatments do not prevent death and do not reduce CSF HHV-6 DNA viral load.
138,139 IDSA guidelines recom -
mend use of ganciclovir or foscarnet in immunocompromised patients (category III-B) and indicate that these agents can be considered in immunocompetent patients, although data on efficacy are lacking 
(category III-C).
7
Herpesvirus B
Herpesvirus B infects Old World monkeys and is the only nonhuman 
herpesvirus that also infects humans, resulting in a high mortality.140 
Monkeys of the genus Macaca  (macaques) are lifelong viral carriers 
and asymptomatically shed virus. Humans develop disease after a monkey bite or scratch or mucosal contact with infected body fluid. Vesicles develop at the site of exposure, followed by onset of a flulike syndrome 
characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, and headache.
140 When the virus 
invades the CNS, the patient develops diplopia, ataxia, hyperesthesias, 
agitation, and ascending paralysis.
Diagnosis is made through wound or contact site culture and 
demonstration of an antibody response with acute and convalescent 
sera.140 Culture must occur in a Biosafety Level 4 facility, so local health 
authorities should be notified if herpesvirus B is suspected. Because 
mortality approaches 100% after CNS symptoms develop, treatment 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1241Chapter 89  Encephalitistypically involve the thalamus, basal ganglia, and brainstem. Less com -
monly, they involve the deep white matter (see Fig. 89.3C).
WNV can produce a poliomyelitis-like acute flaccid paralysis that 
results from viral injury to motor neurons in the anterior horns of the 
spinal cord. Patients typically develop acute onset of asymmetrical limb 
paralysis associated with decreased or absent reflexes and preserved 
sensation. Weakness may be associated with respiratory impairment from diaphragm or intercostal muscle paralysis. Electrophysiology studies obtained acutely show reduction in amplitude or absence of compound muscle action potentials with relatively preserved sensory nerve action potentials. Electromyographic studies obtained 2 to 3 weeks after onset show characteristic features of denervation, including increased inser -
tional activity and fasciculations. In contrast to Guillain-Barré syndrome, there is no evidence of significant demyelination (slowed conduction 
velocities or conduction block). In most, but not all, cases of WNV , 
acute flaccid paralysis is associated with clinical signs and symptoms of systemic infection, and the syndrome may occur in association with meningitis or encephalitis. Patients typically have CSF features similar to the features seen in meningoencephalitis. MRI of the spinal cord may show increased signal in the anterior horns on T2 and FLAIR sequences.
West Nile Virus Infection: Diagnosis
WNV neuroinvasive disease is usually diagnosed through demonstration of WNV-specific IgM in CSF with ELISA.
169 In some patients, CSF 
WNV IgM may persist for 1 year or longer, and it may be necessary to perform serial studies of serum and CSF IgG and IgM to definitively distinguish acute from remote infection. CSF PCR for WNV is highly specific but less sensitive than serologic studies. CSF PCR may be 
particularly useful early in infection, however, before antibody responses 
have fully evolved, and in immunocompromised individuals who may have delayed or absent seroconversion.
169 Antibodies reacting with WNV 
antigens in ELISA tests may occur as a result of heterologous cross-reactions induced by infection with or vaccination against other flavi-viruses, including St. Louis encephalitis virus, yellow fever virus, and JEV . In some cases, it may be necessary to confirm ELISA results with 
plaque reduction neutralization assays. Neutralization antibody titers 
are typically highest against the inciting virus compared with cross-reacting species.
West Nile Virus: Prevention and Treatment
There is no specific therapy of proven benefit for WNV infection. Thus prevention of mosquito bites remains the best strategy for WNV infection. This includes avoiding outdoor exposure during dawn and dusk time periods when Culex  mosquito activity increases, wearing long sleeves 
and pants, and using N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide (DEET)-containing 
insect repellent on exposed skin when outdoors. A study was able to show that a live-attenuated chimeric WNV vaccine (rWN/DEN4delta30) was immunogenic and well tolerated in a cohort of flavivirus-naïve adults aged 50 to 65 years.
170 Targeted development of a vaccine for 
older adults may be a cost-effective approach to deploy in regions of 
high endemic WNV circulation or during new epidemics. Isolated case 
reports and small series have revealed both benefit and lack of effect 
from treatment with IVIG-containing high-titer anti-WNV antibodies 
(Omr-IgG-am) and with interferon- α. A phase I/II trial to evaluate the 
safety and efficacy of a humanized monoclonal antibody (MGAWN1) directed against an epitope on the WNV envelope glycoprotein was closed owing to low enrollment (NCT00515385). Isolated reports of corticosteroid use in patients with WNV acute flaccid paralysis and brainstem disease do not permit any conclusions about efficacy.
171
West Nile Virus: Infection Outcome
Mortality from WNV neuroinvasive disease is approximately 12% and occurs almost exclusively in the subsets of patients with severe encepha -
litis or severe acute flaccid paralysis. The frequency and severity of sequelae are still not well understood.
172 Six months after the acute 
infection, 40% of patients with movement disorders such as myoclonus, parkinsonism, or tremors have residual symptoms, and 20% have ongoing symptoms at 18 months of follow-up.
172 More recent studies have also 
suggested that 50% of WNV encephalitis survivors report cognitive epidemics of WNV in 2003 and 2012 were the largest outbreaks of neuroinvasive viral infections ever reported in the Western 
Hemisphere.
148
West Nile Virus Pathogenesis
WNV is transmitted via a mosquito bite from an infected Culex  mosquito. 
Transmission also can occur after organ transplantation of WNV-infected 
organs,149 breastfeeding,150,151 and blood transfusions.152 Most (80%) 
infections are asymptomatic. Approximately 20% of infected individuals develop an acute febrile flulike illness (West Nile fever) characterized by fever, headache, fatigue, anorexia, nausea, myalgia, and lymphade -
nopathy. A maculopapular rash involving the trunk and limbs occurs 
in 25% to 50%.
153 Less than 1% of WNV-infected individuals develop 
neuroinvasive disease, including meningitis, encephalitis, and acute 
flaccid paralysis.148,154–156 It has been estimated that 30% to 40% of patients 
with neuroinvasive WNV infection develop meningitis, 50% to 60% develop encephalitis, and 5% to 10% develop acute flaccid paralysis.
157,158 
Other reported syndromes include rhabdomyolysis,159 chorioretinitis,160 
myositis,161 and autonomic nerve dysfunction.162
Neuroinvasive disease most commonly occurs in older individuals 
(>60 years old). In one study, the odds ratio of developing encephalitis was 2.2 (95% CI, 1.6–3.1) in individuals older than 64 years.
163 Additional 
identified risk factors for encephalitis include hypertension and diabe -
tes.154,163,164 Immunocompromised patients, including organ transplant 
recipients, are at high risk of developing severe WNV disease. Specific genetic factors in humans shown to enhance susceptibility to serious WNV disease include single nucleotide polymorphisms in the oligoad -
enylate synthetase gene, which encodes an interferon inducible enzyme 
involved in antiviral innate immunity,
165 and a genetic deficiency of the 
chemokine receptor CCR5, which may inhibit trafficking of WNV-specific 
CD8+ T cells into the CNS.166
West Nile Virus: Infection Clinical Features
WNV meningitis is characterized by the abrupt onset of fever, headache, meningeal signs, photophobia, and phonophobia. Patients have lym -
phocytic CSF pleocytosis with an average of 226 cells/mm
3, mildly 
elevated protein, and normal glucose. Neutrophils, rather than lym -
phocytes, predominate in the CSF in approximately 50% of patients with WNV meningitis.
36 Neuroimaging studies are unremarkable, and 
the EEG is usually normal.
WNV encephalitis is distinguished from meningitis by the presence 
of signs and symptoms of brain parenchymal involvement or abnormali -
ties at neuroimaging or on EEG indicative of brain parenchymal 
involvement. Patients with WNV encephalitis present with fever 
(70%–100%), headache (50%–100%), and altered mental status (45%–100%). Common signs unusual in other forms of viral encephalitis that may suggest the diagnosis of WNV or flavivirus infection include tremor, parkinsonism, and myoclonus (20%–40%).
156,157 Weakness is 
common and may be generalized or of a lower motor neuron type associated with hypotonia and areflexia with preserved sensation. Cranial neuropathies, most commonly involving unilateral or bilateral peripheral 
facial palsy, occur in approximately 20%.
The prevalence of tremors ranges from 12% to nearly 100% in different 
studies.
155 It is often coarse, typically involves the arms, and has postural 
and kinetic components.167 Parkinsonian features also occur with variable 
frequency and include signs such as bradykinesia, hypomimia, and 
postural instability.155,167 Myoclonus can resemble that seen in prion 
diseases and usually involves the upper extremities and face. Cerebellar abnormalities including incoordination and gait ataxia occur in a variable percentage of cases.
154,157,164,168
Patients with WNV infection have a normal complete blood count 
or mild leukocytosis.3 The CSF findings in patients with encephalitis 
are almost identical to the findings with meningitis, including pleocytosis (mean, 227 cells/mm
3), elevated protein level, and normal glucose level. 
There is a predominance of neutrophils rather than lymphocytes in 37% of cases.
36 MRI is abnormal in approximately 50% to 70% of WNV 
encephalitis cases, which is somewhat less frequent than in HSV encephalitis, and the frequency depends on the timing of the studies and the imaging sequences used. CT considerably less sensitive than MRI, and CT scans are usually normal. When present, MRI abnormalities 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1242Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
37,086 cases of symptomatic infection in US territories. This has resulted 
in possible ZIKV infections in 2311 and 4621 pregnant women in the US states and US territories, respectively (www.cdc.gov/zika/reporting).
Zika Virus Clinical Features
The pathogenesis in adults is likely similar to that of other flaviviruses described earlier and results in asymptomatic infection in up to 80% of adults exposed to infection.
180 In adult patients who develop disease, 
symptoms are characterized by fever, rash, myalgias, arthralgias, headache, and nonpurulent conjunctivitis that usually resolves in 7 days. Hospitaliza -
tion and severe disease following acute ZIKV infection in adults are rare. During the ZIKV outbreak in Brazil, a prospective cohort of adult 
patients with neurologic complications was evaluated during a 3-month 
period of enrollment in the summer.
181 Of the 40 patients included in 
the study, 68% had Guillain-Barré syndrome, 13% had encephalitis, and 5% had transverse myelitis.
Despite relatively uncomplicated disease in adults, ZIKV complications 
can be clinically severe when pregnant women are acutely infected, 
resulting in infection in the fetus and congenital defects. Birth defects 
due to ZIKV are broadly categorized as congenital ZIKV syndrome and include chorioretinal atrophy and scarring, optic nerve abnormalities, microcephaly, developmental delay, arthrogryposis, hearing loss, and a variety of brain developmental abnormalities. Fetal abnormalities in the brain after ZIKV infection are directly related to virus infection of neuronal progenitor cells and astrocytes in the brain and other developing nervous system structures.
Zika Virus: Transmission
The major mode of ZIKV transmission remains mosquito-borne transmission from the bite of an infected A. aegypti  mosquito. However, 
ZIKV is the first known arbovirus that can also be spread through sexual transmission. Because of the risk of sexual transmission, the CDC has published recommendations on prevention of ZIKV by sexual 
contact (www.cdc.gov/pregnancy/zika). ZIKV can also be spread through 
blood transfusion and organ transplantation, similar to WNV .
Zika Virus Infection: Diagnosis and Management
In suspected cases of ZIKV disease, diagnosis requires a compatible clinical syndrome and recent travel to an endemic area with ongoing ZIKV transmission.
180 Women who are pregnant and have traveled to 
endemic areas should be evaluated by health professionals with expertise in evaluation and monitoring of high-risk pregnancies associated with ZIKV . Suspected cases of ZIKV disease can be diagnosed through molecular detection of ZIKV RNA with reverse-transcriptase polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing in serum, CSF , and urine samples or 
serologic testing for ZIKV-specific IgM antibodies and ZIKV-specific neutralizing antibodies in serum or CSF . Serologic detection of ZIKV IgM and neutralizing antibodies is sensitive for infection after 1 week of symptoms but lacks specificity owing to antibody cross-reactivity among all related flaviviruses. However, ZIKV PCR testing is sensitive in the first week of symptoms and has a specificity of >95%.
There are no approved therapies for ZIKV infection. Prevention of 
infection is based on prevention of mosquito bites and avoidance of travel to an area of ongoing mosquito transmission of ZIKV . ZIKV may be shed for prolonged periods in semen, and sexual transmission of ZIKV has been described (see Chapter 153).
Multiple candidate ZIKV vaccines have shown efficacy in animal 
models, and have demonstrated immunogenicity in phase I clinical trials (see Chapter 153).
Eastern Equine Encephalitis Virus
Eastern equine encephalitis virus is an alphavirus that causes a sporadic, mosquito-borne viral infection endemic in the eastern United States and the Caribbean. There are four lineages of eastern equine encephalitis virus: group I causes most disease in humans, and groups IIA, IIB, and III cause primarily equine disease in Central and South America. Eastern 
equine encephalitis virus is maintained in an enzootic cycle with avian 
species after a bite from a mosquito vector, Culiseta melanura .
182 Birds 
serve as the primary reservoir host and amplifying hosts, and humans are incidentally infected by various mosquito bridging vectors, including problems, decreased motor speed, and diminished dexterity 3 months 
after the initial infection.
172 Long-term follow-up of patients with WNV 
infection found that about 31% of participants experienced more than 
6 months of fatigue symptoms after infection, with an average duration of 5 years.
173 However, it is not clear how different the infected cohort 
is from prospective, age-matched community control subjects.
St. Louis Encephalitis
St. Louis encephalitis virus has been an important cause of arbovirus encephalitis in the United States since the 1930s and was the most important neuroinvasive flavivirus in North America until the emergence of WNV .
3 St. Louis encephalitis virus is found in a broad range from 
Canada and the United States to Central and South America (see Fig. 89.2B). Transmission to humans in the western United States is primarily via Culex tarsalis ; in the eastern United States, it is through Culex pipiens, 
Culex quinquefasciatus, and Culex nigripalpus.  The incidence rates for 
St. Louis encephalitis virus in the United States range from 0.003 to 0.752 per 100,000, with a median of 35 cases per year.
174 In 1975 the 
largest outbreak recorded in the United States involved 2800 cases in 31 states. In 2015 and 2016, 19 and 7 respective cases of St. Louis encephalitis virus infection, mainly in Arizona and the Mississippi river basin, were reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) (www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dvbid/sle/index.html). Thus St. Louis 
encephalitis continues to circulate in the continental United States.
St. Louis Encephalitis Virus Infection:  
Clinical Features
After the bite of an infected mosquito, an incubation period of 4 to 21 days precedes the onset of clinical symptoms. In adults, symptomatic infection occurs in 1 of 300 individuals exposed to virus.
3 These patients 
develop a flulike illness characterized by fever, myalgias, headaches, and other nonspecific symptoms including nausea, vomiting, cough, and sore throat. In patients younger than 20 years, 40% develop meningitis and 50% develop encephalitis.
175 In patients older than 60 years, more 
than 90% of patients develop encephalitis. Common manifestations of St. Louis encephalitis virus include reduced level of consciousness with 
lethargy, coma, tremors, myoclonic jerks, opsoclonus, nystagmus, and ataxia. Mortality of St. Louis encephalitis virus infections ranges from 4% to 27%,
175 seizures develop in 47% of patients, and acute flaccid 
paralysis has been associated with 6% of encephalitis cases.176,177
St. Louis Encephalitis Virus Infection: Diagnosis
MRI findings are often normal, but images may show high T2 signal intensity of the substantia nigra. In a case series of 11 patients, CSF studies revealed a lymphocytic pleocytosis in all patients (mean, 107 cells/mm
3; range, 5–446 cells/mm3), elevated protein level (mean, 67  m g/
dL) in 7 patients, and normal CSF glucose level.177 EEG is almost 
invariably abnormal, with the most common finding being generalized slowing. Severely affected patients may have seizures or periodic lateral -
izing epileptiform discharges. General laboratory studies reveal a peripheral leukocytosis, hyponatremia, mild transaminitis, and sterile 
pyuria.
176 Diagnosis is based on demonstration of anti–St. Louis 
encephalitis virus IgM antibodies in the serum or CSF .178 A fourfold 
increase in neutralizing antibody titers in the serum during the acute 
and convalescent phases of disease can also be used to establish a diagnosis. There is no therapy of proven efficacy for St. Louis encephalitis virus, although therapy with interferon- α2 may be considered (III-C).
7 
An open-label, nonrandomized study of interferon- α2b suggested that 
therapy may improve outcome.179
Zika Virus (Also See Chapter 153)
ZIKV is an arbovirus in the flavivirus genus and shares many features with both dengue virus and WNV in terms of molecular structure and clinical features. Like dengue, ZIKV can be spread by Aedes aegypti  
mosquitos in an urban cycle that involves humans as an amplifying host. Like WNV , ZIKV is neuroinvasive, but ZIKV is the first flavivirus 
known to cause severe neurologic disease in human fetuses when a 
pregnant mother is acutely infected. ZIKV transmission in the Americas peaked in the summer and early fall of 2016. There have been 5590 reported symptomatic infections in the continental United States and 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1243Chapter 89  Encephalitisarbovirus infections in humans, viremia in humans is sufficient to 
transmit virus to mosquitoes. Forty percent of patients with Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus have virus in the pharynx, suggesting that direct spread between humans may be possible, although this has never been shown.
190,192
Symptomatic Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus results in neu -
rologic disease in a few cases after a viral prodrome of fever, headache, photophobia, conjunctival injection, myalgia, arthralgia, nausea, and dizziness. Pharyngeal inflammation, painful cervical lymphadenopathy, somnolence, and tremulousness may occur.
193,194 CSF analysis reveals 
lymphocytic pleocytosis, elevated protein, and in some cases an elevated glucose ratio. There are few reports of neuroimaging studies. CT scans are usually normal. EEG typically shows diffuse slowing, although some cases have focal temporal slowing similar to that seen in HSV encephalitis. 
General laboratory abnormalities include leukopenia and elevated 
transaminase levels.
193
Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus is diagnosed by detection of 
specific IgM antibody in the CSF or serum. Venezuelan equine encepha -
litis virus nucleic acid can also be amplified with PCR from the blood or pharynx on the eighth day of illness.
192 Fatality rates range from 0.2% 
to 1% of symptomatic Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus patients and 10% to 25% of patients with encephalitis. There is no antiviral therapy of proven benefit.
Chikungunya
Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is an Old World alphavirus that reemerged as a cause of a major epidemic in Africa in 2004, then spread to the island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean in 2006 and to Southeast India itself. As of late July 2014, CHIKV had spread extensively into Caribbean islands and to multiple Central and South American countries (see 
Chapter 151). CHIKV generally causes an acute infection consisting of 
fever, rash, and polyarthritis that can be severe and prolonged (see Chapter 151). CNS involvement has been reported but appears to be uncommon.
226,227195–199
The large outbreak of CHIKV infection in Réunion enabled a detailed 
study of CHIKV-associated encephalitis to be carried out.200 CHIKV-
associated encephalitis was defined by the presence of CHIKV RNA or anti-CHIKV IgM, along with clinical criteria of the International Encephalitis Consortium. Twenty-four cases of encephalitis were reported for a cumulative incidence rate of 8.6 per 100,000 persons. Incidence 
rates were highest in patients younger than 1 year and in those older 
than 65 years. The case-fatality rate of CHIKV-associated encephalitis was 16.6%, and the proportion of children diagnosed with persisting disabilities was between 30% and 45%. Poor prognoses (death or sequelae) were more frequent in adults (53.6%) than in children (18.2%).
200
California Encephalitis Group
California encephalitis virus, La Crosse virus, Jamestown Canyon virus, and Tahyna virus are the major causes of encephalitis in the California encephalitis group within the family of Bunyaviridae and genus Bun-
yavirus.  Of these viruses, La Crosse virus, California encephalitis virus, 
and Jamestown Canyon virus are causes of disease in the United States, and Tahyna virus is predominantly a cause of encephalitis in Russia. La Crosse virus is the most common cause of disease in the California encephalitis group. It was originally described in 1965 after a postmortem examination of a child who died of encephalitis in La Crosse, Wiscon-sin.
201 La Crosse virus is transmitted in an enzootic pattern between 
squirrels and chipmunks by the mosquito Aedes triseriatus  in areas of 
the Mississippi and Ohio river basins (see Fig. 89.2D).202,203 Recent 
outbreaks of La Crosse virus have demonstrated a shift in incidence to the Appalachian region and West Virginia.
204 Human exposure is often 
associated with camping or other recreational activities in wooded areas in endemic regions.
California encephalitis virus was originally isolated in 1941,
205 
but it is rare. Most human cases occur in the western United States and Canada. The ratio of asymptomatic to symptomatic infections is  
1000  : 1.206
Although La Crosse and California encephalitis viruses cause most 
disease in children, Jamestown Canyon virus affects predominantly elderly individuals in regions of the northern United States, with Culex  and Aedes  spp.
183 In the United States, most cases occur along 
the eastern seaboard. Cases are found sporadically along the Gulf Coast and upper Midwest, typically within 5 miles of swamplands or marshlands (see Fig. 89.2C). Approximately 1 in 30 individuals exposed to eastern 
equine encephalitis virus develops disease.
184 Eastern equine encephalitis 
virus causes sporadic infections in human populations during the summer months and occasional epidemic outbreaks.
Patients with eastern equine encephalitis virus develop nonspecific 
symptoms common to other causes of viral encephalitis, including fever, 
chills, malaise, and myalgias.
41 The prodrome is followed by either 
recovery without neurologic illness or the onset of encephalitis character -
ized by severe headache, confusion, nausea, and vomiting. Seizures, 
focal neurologic deficits such as CN palsies or focal weakness, and meningismus are common findings.
41 Brainstem involvement is common 
and is associated with gaze palsies, nystagmus, and pupillary abnormali -
ties. Mortality is about 33% but increases to 50% in patients older  
than 60 years. Moderate-to-severe sequelae occur in one-third of survivors.
41
In one study CT was reported to show findings suggestive of diffuse 
cerebral edema in 40% of cases.185 Similar to the flaviviruses, in eastern 
equine encephalitis MRI abnormalities occur predominantly in the thalamus, basal ganglia, and brainstem.
41 EEG is typically diffusely slow, 
with some severely ill patients having burst suppression or diffuse high-voltage delta-wave slowing.
185 Laboratory studies may show a 
leukocytosis with a neutrophil predominance and hyponatremia in 60% of patients.
41 CSF typically shows a significant pleocytosis; two studies 
demonstrated a mean cell count of 370 leukocytes/mm3 and 940 
leukocytes/mm3, respectively.41,185 Two-thirds of eastern equine encepha -
litis virus cases display a neutrophil predominance, with a median neutrophil proportion of 70% of cells.
41,185 CSF protein is often elevated 
(median, 97  m g/dL), and 90% of patients have CSF glucose concentrations 
less than 60% of coincident serum values.41,185 CSF red blood cells are 
common, reflecting the necrotic and hemorrhagic features of the encephalitis pathologically.
Diagnosis is typically made through demonstration of IgM antibodies 
in CSF with capture ELISA, demonstration of serum IgM antibodies, 
or a fourfold increase in IgG antibodies between acute and convalescent 
sera. No proven antiviral therapy exists for eastern equine encephalitis virus. Treatment is focused on supportive care and managing complica -
tions such as seizures and increased ICP . There is no commercial vaccine for eastern equine encephalitis virus, but standard precautions to prevent mosquito bites may help to prevent infection. In evaluating laboratory and imaging studies for prognostic value, one study found that CSF leukocytosis greater than 500 cells/mm
3 and hyponatremia less than 
130 m Eq/L were predictive of a poor outcome,41 but a longer prodromal 
period was associated with a better prognosis. Overall mortality is approximately 30%, although higher mortality rates have been reported in older individuals. Sequelae are more common and generally more severe in children.
185
Western Equine Encephalitis
Western equine encephalitis virus is an alphavirus that was originally isolated from the brains of horses in an epizootic outbreak in the San Joaquin Valley of California in 1930.
186 There have been 639 cases of 
western equine en cephalitis virus in the United States since 1964 but 
none since 1994.186a A single case of probable western equine encephalitis 
was reported from Uruguay in 2009.187
Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis
Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus is an alphavirus that was originally isolated from the brains of dead horses.
188 Venezuelan equine encephalitis 
virus circulates between a mosquito vector, Culex (Melanoconion),  and 
forest-dwelling small mammals and birds in Central and South America. It emerges during epizootic outbreaks to infect horses and humans via bridge vectors such as Aedes taeniorhynchus.  Epidemics typically occur 
in northern South America but have extended as far north as Mexico and Texas.
189 In areas of sylvatic (forest) activity, seroprevalence can be 
50%. During an outbreak of Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus in Venezuela and Colombia in 1995, approximately 3000 cases of neurologic disease were reported, resulting in 300 deaths.
190,191 In contrast to other 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1244Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
JEV vaccines are licensed in the United States. A mouse brain–derived, 
formalin-inactivated vaccine (JE-MB) showed efficacy in a randomized double-blind trial in Thailand and is approved in the United States for use in individuals older than 1 year. Production of JE-MB was discon -
tinued in 2006, and remaining vaccine is reserved for use in children 
1 to 16 years of age
227 (see Chapter 153). An inactivated Vero cell 
culture–derived vaccine (JE-VC) was approved for use in the United 
States in 2009 for individuals 17 years of age and older.227 A live-attenuated 
vaccine developed in hamster kidney cells (SA14-14-2) is used in China, and several other vaccines are either currently in use (chimeric JEV–yellow fever 17D vaccine) or in development.
174,228
Influenza
Influenza A is known to be associated with immune-mediated neurologic complications such as Guillain-Barré syndrome or transverse myelitis. The overall role of influenza as a cause of CNS disease has been difficult to ascertain. Less commonly, influenza has been associated with encephalitis in children and young adults. During the influenza A (H1N1) 
pandemic in 2009, influenza was associated with encephalitis and 
neurologic complications. In a study of 506 children hospitalized with H1N1, 1.4% ( n = 7) of patients presented with encephalitis, and 5 of 
the patients with encephalitis had a preexisting medical condition.
229 
When seizures are included, the incidence of neurologic complications associated with H1N1 influenza increases to 9.7%. Severe influenza in children and young adults with underlying neurologic or neurodevel-opmental conditions has occurred in smaller outbreaks.
230
Patients often present with typical influenza symptoms during 
the winter and spring months. Symptoms include fever; respiratory abnormalities (cough, coryza, wheezing, labored breathing); nausea; and diarrhea. Patients with severe influenza develop increased work of breathing, and neurologic involvement can be characterized by 
altered mental status, seizures, or focal neurologic signs. The diagnosis 
is commonly made on the basis of the association of the rapid influenza diagnostic test (RIDT) or positive RT-PCR studies on respiratory samples. CSF may show evidence of a pleocytosis with normal glucose and protein levels, but PCR studies for influenza are often negative.
231 It 
is unclear whether CNS complications associated with influenza are a result of direct neuroinvasion or secondary to immune-mediated  
mechanisms.
231
Although the efficacy of antiviral therapy in neurologic complications 
associated with influenza has not been established in clinical trials, it would be prudent to administer antiviral therapy as early as possible, and ideally within 48 hours of symptom onset.
230 Antiviral therapy for influenza 
should be started regardless of vaccination status and is often initiated with other empirical antibiotic therapy (such as acyclovir), pending results 
of the clinical investigation. As therapy for influenza, oseltamivir (75  m g 
by mouth twice daily for patients > 40 kg) h as been recommended for at 
least 10 days (https://www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/antivirals/summary  
-clinicians.htm) (also see Chapter 165).
Colorado Tick Fever Virus (See Chapter 149)
Colorado tick fever virus belongs to the family Reoviridae. It is transmit -
ted by the wood tick Dermacentor andersoni  mainly in the western 
mountain regions of the United States and Canada above 4000 feet in elevation.
232 An enzootic infection cycle exists between small mammals, 
such as ground squirrels, marmots, or chipmunks, and D. andersoni. 
When infected, the tick is infected for life (transstadially) throughout the three main stages of development—larval, nymphal, and adult. Humans are exposed to the habitat of D. andersoni  during summer 
months and are dead-end hosts.
A history of tick bite is obtained in approximately 90% of patients, 
and the incubation period is 0 to 14 days (mean, 3 days).
232 Patients 
develop abrupt onset of fever, chills, generalized myalgias, severe headache, hyperesthetic skin, and severe malaise. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea may be present. About 15% of patients develop a maculopapular or petechial rash. Other physical 
findings include pharyngitis, mild lymphadenopathy, or mild spleno-
megaly. In 50% of patients, fever resolves after 2 days and then recurs in the biphasic or “saddleback” pattern.
232 After convalescence, patients 
older than age 30 may have persistent fatigue for 3 weeks.seroprevalence in some areas reaching 10%.207 A report of a Jamestown 
Canyon virus infection in Montana underscores continued low-level transmission in the northern continental United States.
208 La Crosse 
virus causes infection predominantly in children (mean age, 7.5 years). Symptoms of encephalitis include fever, headache, vomiting in 70%, seizures in 46%, and altered mental status in 42%.
206 Focal neurologic 
signs include hemiparesis, aphasia, dysarthria, and chorea. About 10% of patients develop increased ICP , and rarely cerebral herniation can occur.
206 Jamestown Canyon virus has similar clinical features.
CSF analysis reveals a lymphocytic pleocytosis of 600 cells/mm3, 
normal glucose level, and an increased protein level in 30% of patients.206 
Peripheral leukocytosis and hyponatremia secondary to SIADH are common. IgM detection in the CSF or a fourfold increase in paired sera for IgG is considered diagnostic for infection.
No antiviral therapy currently exists for the California encephalitis 
group of viruses, and no vaccine is available. Mortality from La Crosse encephalitis is approximately 1% to 3%, and most survivors return to normal function.
204,206 Ribavirin treatment for La Crosse encephalitis 
in children is not recommended owing to problems with pharmacokinet -
ics, toxicity at higher doses, and penetration into the CNS.209 Predictors 
of a poor outcome include hyponatremia, persistently elevated body temperature, and a GCS score less than 13.
205,210
Japanese Encephalitis
JEV was initially isolated in Japan in 1935. JEV causes infections across all of Asia, the western Pacific region, and parts of Australia. JEV is the most important cause of viral encephalitis in the world, causing 68,000 cases and 13,000 to 20,000 deaths annually.
211 The virus is transmitted 
naturally in an enzootic cycle among birds, pigs, and other vertebrate hosts by the Culex tritaeniorhynchus mosquito and other Culex  spp. 
Similar to other flaviviruses, humans are incidental hosts that become infected when encountering the enzootic cycle. In rural areas where 
JEV is endemic, it is predominantly a disease of children, in whom 
seroprevalence approaches 100%, but only 1 in 300 exposures results in clinical disease.
211 Several reports also highlight the importance of 
JEV in returning travelers from endemic regions.212,213
After a 1- to 2-week incubation period, symptomatic patients develop 
a nonspecific febrile illness followed by neurologic symptoms of altered consciousness and seizures in 85% of children and 10% of adults.
214,215 
Subtle focal seizures, such as twitching of an eyebrow or finger, can be important clinical findings in JEV infection.
211 Similar to other flavivi -
ruses, in patients with JEV , movement disorders occur in 25% and are characterized by parkinsonism, dystonia, jaw dystonias, opisthotonus, choreoathetosis, orofacial dyskinesia, myoclonic movements, and opsoclonus-myoclonus.
211,215,216 Other focal neurologic findings include 
CN palsies, upper motor neuron weakness, and a lower motor neuron syndrome of acute flaccid paralysis.
CSF shows an elevated opening pressure in 50% of patients. The 
characteristic CSF profile is lymphocytic pleocytosis, normal glucose 
level, and mildly elevated protein level. MRI is often normal but may 
reveal high T2-weighted signal intensity in the thalami, basal ganglia, 
midbrain, brainstem, and occasionally spinal cord.
217,218 Diagnosis is 
confirmed with IgM capture ELISA in the CSF or with amplification 
of viral nucleic acid from CSF or brain tissue by PCR.219–222 The sensitivity 
of commercial IgM ELISAs in CSF ranges from 65% to 69%, with specificities of 89% to 100%.
223
The mortality rate in hospitalized patients ranges from 20% to 30%, 
and 50% of survivors have severe neurologic sequelae. Poor prognostic signs include altered level of consciousness, multiple seizures, increased ICP , isolation of virus in the CSF , and low titer of JEV–specific immu-noglobulins in the CSF .
211– 215,224 In a study of 118 cases of JEV in Malaysia 
from 1997 to 2005, the mortality rate was 8%, and 57% of survivors experienced moderate-to-severe long-term neurologic sequelae.
225 
Predictors of long-term poor outcome included a GCS score of 8 or lower or two or more witnessed seizures.
No therapy for JEV has been proven efficacious in randomized 
controlled clinical trials. Prevention is the primary strategy to control 
JEV infection. Personal protection with insect repellents, mosquito 
avoidance, and mosquito population control programs are important approaches. The most effective prevention to date is vaccination. Two 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1245Chapter 89  Encephalitisepidemiologic and virologic evidence increasingly suggests a potential 
causal role.
Enterovirus encephalitis occurs during the summer months from 
June to October. MRI has a variable sensitivity for enteroviral encephalitis; some studies can show increased T2-weighted signal intensity of both 
cerebral hemispheres with associated edema (see Fig. 89.3D). In the 
CEP , cases of enterovirus encephalitis were diagnosed with RT-PCR of the CSF , and serotyping was available for 20 cases, with echovirus 30 being the most common strain isolated, followed by enterovirus 71, echovirus 18, and coxsackieviruses.
236 Enterovirus 71 can produce  
more severe disease, with cases of focal and generalized encephalitis reported.
238,239 Cases of enterovirus 71 encephalitis have been associated 
with a syndrome of shock, pulmonary edema, and extensive brainstem injury (rhombencephalitis) linked to neurogenic pulmonary edema in some cases. In the CEP , two of the four deaths from enteroviruses were due to enterovirus 71, and the other two enteroviruses were not 
serotyped.
236
Currently, no specific antiviral therapy is approved for the treatment 
of enterovirus infections. Various serotypes have been associated with 
variable sensitivity to pleconaril, an experimental drug.240 However, 
clinical outcome data are insufficient to recommend its use in patients with enterovirus encephalitis, and its development has been halted.
Rabies Virus
Rabies virus belongs to a family of RNA viruses called Rhabdoviridae, genus Lyssavirus.  It is most commonly transmitted to humans through 
the saliva of an infected animal after a bite (see Chapter 163). In 2012 there was no evidence of dog-to-dog transmission of rabies in the United States and Puerto Rico, and no human infections have been attributed 
to a dog bite in the United States.
241 Dogs that become infected in the 
United States are infected with rabies from wildlife. Approximately 93% 
of the rabies detected in the United States is found in animal wildlife, such as raccoons, bats, skunks, and foxes.
241 In contrast, canine rabies 
is enzootic in the dog population in many developing countries, and travelers to these countries can be at risk for exposure to rabies from domestic and feral dogs.
242,243 In Bali, 104 cases of human rabies were 
reviewed and 92% had a history of a dog bite.243 In the United States, 
human cases of rabies are rare. Most human cases of rabies have followed bat exposure
244; however, one patient who died of undiagnosed rabies 
in 2004 was subsequently found to have rabies only after organs were transplanted from this patient into four individuals, resulting in clinical rabies and death of all recipients.
245
After a bite wound, rabies virus from infected saliva invades motor 
and sensory nerves. Neurologic disease is preceded by an incubation period that ranges from 7 days to more than 6 years, with a median incubation of 1 to 2 months.
246,247 The virus moves centripetally from 
the periphery to the dorsal root ganglia and the spinal cord using fast axoplasmic transport,
248–250 resulting in nerve dysfunction manifesting 
as a prodrome of neuropathic pain. When rabies has invaded the nerve cell body in the spinal cord, acute neurologic symptoms evolve into encephalitis.
Patients present with a syndrome of hyperactivity (furious rabies) 
in 80% of the cases, characterized by hydrophobia and aerophobia owing to spasms of the pharyngeal and nuchal muscles triggered by swallow attempts or other types of stimuli.
251 These spasms increase in frequency 
and are followed by agitation, hallucinations, autonomic hyperactivity, and seizures. Body temperature may be as high as 107°F . Paralytic (dumb rabies) presentations constitute 20% of cases and are characterized by paresthesias, weakness, and flaccid paralysis in the bitten limb. Diagnosis 
should be considered in any patient with altered consciousness and an 
exposure history or travel to an endemic area. Diagnosis is made with immunohistochemical staining for rabies antigen from a skin biopsy specimen in the region of the hairline at the neck.
251 Recent development 
of a reverse-transcription heminested PCR test on skin biopsy specimens demonstrated a sensitivity of greater than or equal to 98% and a specificity of 100%.
252 Other diagnostic methods include examination of corneal 
smears for rabies antigen and intracerebral inoculation of mice with patient saliva. Detection of rabies virus neutralizing antibodies in the CSF or serum is diagnostic in unimmunized patients, but antibody detection tests can lack sensitivity.Complications such as encephalitis or meningitis predominantly 
occur in children in about 5% to 10% of the cases. Colorado tick fever virus is rarely fatal.
233 In these patients, neurologic signs and 
symptoms include nuchal rigidity, photophobia, and mild altered  
mental status.
The diagnosis of Colorado tick fever virus infection is usually made 
through IgM capture ELISA, neutralization, or complement fixation.234 
There is no established treatment for Colorado tick fever virus. Most patients recover, although rare deaths have been reported as a  
result of intravascular coagulopathy after Colorado tick fever virus infection.
233
Enteroviruses
Enteroviruses comprise more than 70 different viruses in the Picorna -
viridae family. They can be grouped into polioviruses, coxsackieviruses A and B, echoviruses, and numbered enteroviruses. Enteroviruses cause more than 80% of meningitis cases and also cause more severe neurologic diseases such as encephalitis. Enterovirus infections in the CNS have 
been reviewed
235 (see Chapters 170–172).
Poliovirus
In 1988 the World Health Assembly started the Global Polio Eradication 
Initiative, resulting in a decrease from more than 350,000 cases of poliovirus in 1988 to 223 cases in 2012. In 2017 there were only 20 cases of wild-type polio (all type 1) reported worldwide (12 in Afghanistan and 8 in Pakistan); 86 cases of polio associated with circulating vaccine-
derived poliovirus strains occurred in 2017 (74 in Syria and 12 in Congo). Poliovirus is transmitted by fecal-to-oral contact and by pharyngeal spread during epidemics. Symptomatic poliovirus infection results in meningitis in 8% of cases and paralytic disease in 1% of all cases. After an incubation period of 1 to 2 weeks, patients develop fever, headache, 
meningismus, altered mental status, and seizures (in children and infants). 
Asymmetrical flaccid paralysis, diaphragm paralysis, and CN palsies may follow.
CSF evaluation reveals polymorphonuclear cells early followed by 
a shift to lymphocytes after several days, elevated protein level 
(100–300  m g/dL), and normal glucose level. Diagnosis is made with 
CSF RT-PCR. Treatment for poliovirus infection is supportive. The last large outbreak of poliovirus in the Western Hemisphere occurred in 2000, when 19 cases in the Dominican Republic were reported; the cases were due to a circulating recombinant poliovirus derived from the polio type 1 strain in the oral polio vaccine, rather than wild-type 
virus. As of 2000, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices 
has recommended the use of inactivated polio vaccine in the United States for the entire primary immunization series (see Chapter 171). Trivalent, live-attenuated (Sabin) vaccine is still used in endemic areas of poliovirus infection.
Nonpoliovirus Enteroviruses
Nonpolio enteroviruses cause a wide spectrum of disease in the CNS, including aseptic meningitis, encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, acute 
cerebellar ataxia, optic neuritis, and cranial neuritis (see Chapter 172). 
In neonates, encephalitis is a complication of an overwhelming sepsis-like 
syndrome with 10% mortality. Enteroviruses may cause encephalitis, 
particularly in patients with hypogammaglobulinemia and neonates. In an analysis of the CEP , enteroviruses were responsible for 4.6% of encephalitis cases.
236 This is likely an underestimate, however, based on 
the referral bias inherent in the design of the study. Of the 73 patients diagnosed with confirmed enterovirus encephalitis, 23% were adults who often presented with mild symptoms and altered consciousness (46%), including rare cases of coma (5%) or personality changes (5%).
236 
In 2014, enterovirus D-68 emerged as a major cause of acute upper respiratory infections in children. This outbreak was also associated with a dramatic upsurge in cases of polio-like acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) in children
237 resulting in 120 CDC-confirmed cases in children 
from 34 states. AFM appears to be following an alternating-year pattern; in 2015, cases returned to baseline levels (21 cases, 16 states), only to rise again in 2016 when 144 cases were reported from 37 states and then fall in 2017 (17 cases). Although the role of enterovirus D-68 in 
the upsurge in AFM cases has not been definitively proven, accumulating 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1246Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
Measles Virus
Measles virus remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality 
throughout the world (see Chapter 160).258 In approximately 0.1% of 
cases, measles virus can cause an acute postinfectious measles encephalitis resulting in a 20% mortality.
246 Measles virus can also cause a chronic 
infection in neurons that results in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) or measles inclusion body encephalitis.
246,259 Measles inclusion 
body encephalitis is a rare and uniformly fatal condition that causes disease in young patients with defective cellular immunity.
259,260 SSPE 
is a slowly progressive disorder characterized by seizures, deteriora -
tion of cognitive and motor function, myoclonic movements, and death. It occurs 5 to 15 years after initial measles infection, which usually occurs in children younger than 2 years.
261 Immunization 
has reduced the incidence of SSPE more than 90% in developed countries; however, the rate of SSPE is 21 per 1 million population in India.
261,262 When SSPE occurs in adults, the mean age is 25 years and 
most patients have an undocumented or negative vaccination history  
for measles.
Initial symptoms may be subtle and include intellectual deterioration 
and behavioral changes.261 These symptoms progress to myoclonic jerks, 
ataxia, dystonia, and generalized or partial seizures.261,262 Ocular and 
visual symptoms occur in 10% to 50% of patients and precede neurologic disease by several years. Ocular symptoms include cortical blindness, chorioretinitis, and optic atrophy.
263,264 CSF examination findings are 
usually normal with a markedly increased immunoglobulin level. Neuroimaging findings are generally limited, but MRI may reveal high signal intensity on T2-weighted images in the white matter, particularly the occipital subcortical white matter, with near-uniform sparing of 
gray matter.
SSPE has a rapidly progressive course in adults.
265 A small, single 
uncontrolled trial suggested that treatment with oral inosine pranobex 
(Isoprinosine) and interferon- α may be effective for adult-onset SSPE,266 
but in general no adequate therapy is currently available for the treatment of SSPE.Infected patients should be isolated because body fluids can  
contain high titers of active virus. Treatment of rabies virus infec -
tion is largely supportive and results in a uniformly fatal outcome. One case of survival after rabies virus infection was reported in a 15-year-old girl after treatment with coma induction and EEG burst suppression using midazolam and ketamine supplemented with barbiturates and benzodiazepines.
253 Antiviral therapy included 
IV ribavirin (33  m g/kg load and then 16  m g/kg every 6 hours) and 
enteral amantadine (200  m g/day).253 Despite this case of survival 
with treatment of rabies virus infection, several failures have been  
reported.254
The mainstay of rabies treatment is PEP . Wounds should be cleansed 
with soap and water followed by povidone-iodine. Human diploid cell rabies vaccine, rabies vaccine adsorbed, or purified chick embryo vaccine should be administered intramuscularly.
255 In 2010, new CDC 
recommendations for rabies PEP included vaccination on days 0, 3, 7, and 14 but no dose at day 28 as previously instructed.
256 Previously 
vaccinated individuals are still given vaccine on days 0 and 3. In addition to vaccination, PEP includes human rabies immunoglobulin, 
20 IU/kg , administered as soon as possible after the exposure, up to 
7 days after the first dose of vaccine. As much of the dose as possible should be administered at the bite wound site, and any remaining dose should be administered intramuscularly in the same limb, but distant to the vaccination site. Using the CDC- and World Health Organization–recommended rabies PEP regimen, a study of 110 
rabies-exposed travelers found that only 14% received human rabies 
immunoglobulin and that antibody levels afterward were less than 0.5  IU/
mL in 6.7% of travelers who received four doses of vaccine.257 Thus 
follow-up antibody titers at day 21 after rabies PEP vaccination may be 
useful.257 If the animal that caused the bite wound is available, healthy 
animals should be quarantined and observed for clinical illness over a 10-day period. If the animal is ill, it should be euthanized and the brain should be analyzed by the local health department for evidence of  
rabies infection.
Key References
The complete reference list is available online at Expert Consult .
1. G laser CA, Gilliam S, Schnurr D, et  al. In search of 
encephalitis etiologies: diagnostic challenges in the 
California encephalitis project, 1998-2000. Clin Infect Dis . 
2003;36:731–742.
5. G laser CA, Honarmand S, Anderson LJ, et  al. Beyond 
viruses: clinical profiles and etiologies associated with encephalitis. Clin Infect Dis . 2006;43:1565–1577.
7.
 T unkel AR, Glaser CA, Bloch KC, et  al. The management 
of encephalitis: clinical practice guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis . 
2008;47:303–327.
10.
 Ga ble MS, Sheriff H, Dalmau J, et  al. The frequency of 
autoimmune N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor encephalitis surpasses that of individual viral etiologies in young 
individuals enrolled in the California encephalitis project. 
Clin Inf Dis . 2012;54:899–904.
13.
 T enembaum S, Chitnis T, Ness J, et  al. Acute 
disseminated encephalomyelitis. Neurology. 2007; 
68(16 suppl 2):S23–S36.
18. T unkel AR, Hartman BJ, Kaplan SL, et  al. Practice 
guidelines for the management of bacterial meningitis. Clin Infect Dis . 2004;39:1267–1284.
25.
 M cCabe K, Tyler K, Tanabe J. Diffusion-weighted MRI 
abnormalities as a clue to the diagnosis of herpes simplex encephalitis. Neurology. 2003;61:1015–1016.
36.
 T yler KL, Pape J, Goody RJ, et  al. CSF findings in 250 
patients with serologically confirmed West Nile virus meningitis and encephalitis. Neurology. 2006;66: 
361–365.
37.
 S imko JP , Caliendo AM, Hogle K, et  al. Differences in 
laboratory findings for cerebrospinal fluid specimens obtained from patients with meningitis or encephalitis 
due to herpes simplex virus (HSV) documented by 
detection of HSV DNA. Clin Infect Dis . 2002;35: 
414–419.
54.
 B ossolasco S, Calori G, Moretti F , et  al. Prognostic 
significance of JC virus DNA levels in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with HIV-associated progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. Clin Infect Dis . 2005;40:738–744.55.
 S olomon T, Ooi MH, Beasley DW , et  al. West Nile 
encephalitis. BMJ. 2003;326:865–869.
58. B usch MP , Kleinman SH, Tobler LH, et  al. Virus and 
antibody dynamics in acute West Nile virus infection. J 
Infect Dis . 2008;198:984–993.
63. S olomon T, Hart IJ, Beeching NJ. Viral encephalitis: a 
clinician’s guide. Pract Neurol . 2007;7:288–305.
90. B enson PC, Swadron SP . Empiric acyclovir is infrequently 
initiated in the emergency department to patients 
ultimately diagnosed with encephalitis. Ann Emerg Med . 
2006;47:100–105.
92. T an IL, McArthur JC, Venkatesan A, et  al. Atypical 
manifestations and poor outcome of herpes simplex encephalitis in the immunocompromised. Neurology. 
2012;79:2125–2132.
95.
 Sa fain MG, Roguski M, Kryzanski JT, et  al. A review of 
the combined medical and surgical management in patients with herpes simplex encephalitis. Clin Neurol 
Neurosurg . 2015;128:10–16.
99.
 A urelius E, Franzen-Hohl E, Glimaker M, et  al. 
Long-term valacyclovir suppressive treatment after herpes simplex virus type 2 meningitis: a double-blind, 
randomized controlled trial. Clin Infect Dis . 
2012;54:1304–1313.
106.
 P ahud BA, Glaser CA, Dekker CL, et  al. Varicella zoster 
disease of the central nervous system: epidemiological, 
clinical, and laboratory features 10 years after the 
introduction of the varicella vaccine. J Infect Dis . 
2011;203:316–323.
109. S teiner I, Kennedy PG, Pachner AR. The neurotropic 
herpes viruses: herpes simplex and varicella-zoster. 
Lancet Neurol . 2007;6:1015–1028.
113. G rahn A, Studahl M. Varicella-zoster virus infections of 
the central nervous system—prognosis, diagnostics and treatment. J Infect . 2015;71:281–293.
115.
 N agel MA, Cohrs RJ, Mahalingam R, et  al. The varicella 
zoster virus vasculopathies: clinical, CSF , imaging, and virologic features. Neurology. 2008;70:853–860.
119.
 R afailidis PI, Mourtzoukou EG, Varbobitis IC, et  al. 
Severe cytomegalovirus infection in apparently immunocompetent patients: a systematic review. Virology 
J. 2008;5:47–54.125.
 M artelius T, Lappalainen M, Palomaki M, et  al. Clinical 
characteristics of patients with epstein barr virus in cerebrospinal fluid. BMC Infect Dis . 2011;11: 
281–287.
142.
 W asay M, Khatri IA, Abd-Allah F . Arbovirus infections of 
the nervous system: current trends and future threats. Neurology. 2015;84:421–423.
143.
 B ogovic P , Strle F . Tick-borne encephalitis: a review of 
epidemiology, clinical characteristics, and management. World J Clin Cases . 2015;3:430–441.
154.
 B ode AV , Sejvar JJ, Pape WJ, et  al. West Nile virus 
disease: a descriptive study of 228 patients hospitalized in a 4-county region of Colorado in 2003. Clin Infect Dis . 
2006;42:1234–1240.
156.
 D ebiasi RL, Tyler KL. West Nile virus 
meningoencephalitis. Nat Clin Pract Neurol . 
2006;2:264–275.
157. S ejvar JJ, Haddad MB, Tierney BC, et  al. Neurologic 
manifestations and outcome of West Nile virus infection. JAMA. 2003;290:511–515.
172.
 S ejvar JJ. The long-term outcomes of human West  
Nile virus infection. Clin Infect Dis . 2007;44: 
1617–1624.
173. Ga rcia MN, Hause AM, Walker CM, et  al. Evaluation  
of prolonged fatigue post-West Nile virus infection  
and association of fatigue with elevated antiviral and proinflammatory cytokines. Viral Immunol . 
2014;27:327–333.
195.
 L emant J, Boisson V , Winer A, et  al. Serious acute 
chikungunya virus infection requiring intensive care during the Réunion Island outbreak in 2005-2006. Crit 
Care Med . 2008;36:2536–2541.
196.
 G érardin P , Barau G, Michault A, et  al. Multidisciplinary 
prospective study of mother-to-child chikungunya virus infections on the Island of la Réunion. PLoS Med. 
2008;5:e60.
197.
 T ournebize P , Charlin C, Lagrange M. Neurological 
manifestations in chikungunya: about 23 cases collected in Réunion Island. Rev Neurol (Paris) . 2009;165: 
48–51.
198.
 Ga nesan K, Diwan A, Shankar SK, et  al. Chikungunya 
encephalomyeloradiculitis: report of 2 cases with 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1247Chapter 89  Encephalitisneuroimaging and 1 case with autopsy findings. AJNR 
Am J Neuroradiol . 2008;29:1636–1637.
199. Lebrun G, Chadda K, Reboux AH, et al. Guillain-barré 
syndrome after chikungunya infection. Emerg Infect Dis . 
2009;15:495–496.
200. Gérardin P , Couderc T, Bintner M, et al. Chikungunya 
virus-associated encephalitis: a cohort study on la 
Réunion island, 2005-2009. Neurology . 2016;86:94–102.
204. Haddow AD, Bixler D, Odoi A. The spatial epidemiology 
and clinical features of reported cases of LaCrosse virus 
infection in west Virginia from 2003 to 2007. BMC Infect 
Dis. 2011;11:29–38.211. Expanding poliomyelitis and measles surveillance 
networks to establish surveillance for acute meningitis 
and encephalitis syndromes—bangladesh, China, India, 
2006-2008. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 
2012;61:1008–1011.
227. Fischer M, Lindsey N, Staples JE, et al. Japanese 
encephalitis vaccines: recommendations of the advisory 
committee on immunization practices (ACIP). MMWR 
Recomm Rep . 2010;59(RR–1):1–21.
229. Khandaker G, Zurynski Y , Buttery J, et al. Neurologic 
complications of influenza a(H1N1) pdm09. Neurology . 
2012;79:1474–1481.235. Rhoades RE, Tabor-Godwin JM, Tsueng G, et al. 
Enterovirus infections of the central nervous system. 
Virology . 2011;411:288–305.
244. Manning SE, Rupprecht CE, Fishbein D, et al. Human 
rabies prevention—united states, 2008: recommendations 
of the advisory committee on immunization practices. 
MMWR Recomm Rep . 2008;57(RR–3):1–28.
256. Rupprecht CE, Briggs D, Brown CM, et al. Use of a 
reduced (4-dose) vaccine schedule for post-exposure 
prophylaxis to prevent human rabies: recommendation of 
the advisory committee on immunization practices. 
MMWR Recomm Rep . 2010;59(RR–2):1–9.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 89  Encephalitis
1247.e1
References
1. Glaser CA, Gilliam S, Schnurr D, et al. In search of 
encephalitis etiologies: diagnostic challenges in the 
California encephalitis project, 1998-2000. Clin Infect Dis . 
2003;36:731–742.
2. Tan K, Patel S, Gandhi N, et al. Burden of 
neuroinfectious diseases on the neurology service in a 
tertiary care center. Neurology . 2008;71:1160–1166.
3. Davis LE, Beckham JD, Tyler KL. North American 
encephalitic arboviruses. Neurol Clin . 2008;26:727–757.
4. Vora NM, et al. Burden of encephalitis-associated 
hospitalizations in the United States, 1998-2010. 
Neurology . 2014;82:443–451.
5. Glaser CA, Honarmand S, Anderson LJ, et al. Beyond 
viruses: clinical profiles and etiologies associated with 
encephalitis. Clin Infect Dis . 2006;43:1565–1577.
6. Granerod J, Ambrose HE, Davies NWS, et al. Causes of 
encephalitis and differences in their clinical presentations 
in England: a multicentre, population-based prospective 
study. Lancet Infect Dis . 2010;10:835–844.
7. Tunkel AR, Glaser CA, Bloch KC, et al. The management 
of encephalitis: clinical practice guidelines by the 
infectious diseases society of America. Clin Infect Dis . 
2008;47:303–327.
8. Venkatesan A, et al. Case definitions, diagnostic 
algorithms, and priorities in encephalitis: consensus 
statement of the international encephalitis consortium. 
Clin Infect Dis . 2013;57:1114–1128.
9. Graus F , et al. A clinical approach to diagnosis of 
autoimmune encephalitis. Lancet Neurol . 
2016;15:391–404.
10. Gable MS, Sheriff H, Dalmau J, et al. The frequency of 
autoimmune N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor encephalitis 
surpasses that of individual viral etiologies in young 
individuals enrolled in the California encephalitis project. 
Clin Inf Dis . 2012;54:899–904.
11. Pruss H, Finke C, Holtje M, et al. N-methyl-D-aspartate 
receptor antibodies in herpes simplex encephalitis. Ann 
Neurol . 2012;72:902–911.
12. Gabilondo I, Saiz A, Galan L, et al. Analysis of relapses  
in anti-NMDAR encephalitis. Neurology . 2011;77:  
996–999.
13. Tenembaum S, Chitnis T, Ness J, et al. Acute 
disseminated encephalomyelitis. Neurology . 2007;68(16 
suppl 2):S23–S36.
14. Huynh W , Cordato DJ, Kehdi E, et al. Post-vaccination 
encephalomyelitis: literature review and illustrative case. J 
Clin Neurosci . 2008;15:1315–1322.
15. de Seze J, Debouverie M, Zephir H, et al. Acute fulminant 
demyelinating disease: a descriptive study of 60 patients. 
Arch Neurol . 2007;64:1426–1432.
16. Noorbakhsh F , Johnson RT, Emery D, et al. Acute 
disseminated encephalomyelitis: clinical and pathogenesis 
features. Neurol Clin . 2008;26:759–780.
17. Raschilas F , Wolff M, Delatour F , et al. Outcome of and 
prognostic factors for herpes simplex encephalitis in adult 
patients: results of a multicenter study. Clin Infect Dis . 
2002;35:254–260.
18. Tunkel AR, Hartman BJ, Kaplan SL, et al. Practice 
guidelines for the management of bacterial meningitis. 
Clin Infect Dis . 2004;39:1267–1284.
19. Whitley RJ, Soong SJ, Hirsch MS, et al. Herpes simplex 
encephalitis: vidarabine therapy and diagnostic problems. 
N Engl J Med . 1981;304:313–318.
20. Hasbun R, Abrahams J, Jekel J, et al. Computed 
tomography of the head before lumbar puncture in adults 
with suspected meningitis. N Engl J Med . 
2001;345:1727–1733.
21. Kastrup O, Wanke I, Maschke M. Neuroimaging of 
infections of the central nervous system. Semin Neurol . 
2008;28:511–522.
22. Maschke M, Kastrup O, Forsting M, et al. Update on 
neuroimaging in infectious central nervous system 
disease. Curr Opin Neurol . 2004;17:475–480.
23. Hatipoglu HG, Sakman B, Yuksel E. Magnetic resonance 
and diffusion-weighted imaging findings of herpes 
simplex encephalitis. Herpes . 2008;15:13–17.
24. Kiroglu Y , Calli C, Yunten N, et al. Diffusion-weighted 
MR imaging of viral encephalitis. Neuroradiology . 
2006;48:875–880.
25. McCabe K, Tyler K, Tanabe J. Diffusion-weighted MRI 
abnormalities as a clue to the diagnosis of herpes simplex 
encephalitis. Neurology . 2003;61:1015–1016.
26. Prakash M, Kumar S, Gupta RK. Diffusion-weighted MR 
imaging in Japanese encephalitis. J Comput Assist Tomogr . 
2004;28:756–761.
27. Gilden DH, Mahalingam R, Cohrs RJ, et al. Herpesvirus 
infections of the nervous system. Nat Clin Pract Neurol . 
2007;3:82–94.
28. Domingues RB, Tsanaclis AM, Pannuti CS, et al. 
Evaluation of the range of clinical presentations of herpes 
simplex encephalitis by using polymerase chain reaction assay of cerebrospinal fluid samples. Clin Infect Dis . 
1997;25:86–91.
29. Domingues RB, Fink MC, Tsanaclis AM, et al. Diagnosis 
of herpes simplex encephalitis by magnetic resonance 
imaging and polymerase chain reaction assay of 
cerebrospinal fluid. J Neurol Sci . 1998;157:148–153.
30. Tyler KL. Herpes simplex virus infections of the central 
nervous system: encephalitis and meningitis, including 
Mollaret’s. Herpes . 2004;11(suppl 2):57A–64A.
31. Ali M, Safriel Y , Sohi J, et al. West Nile virus infection: 
MR imaging findings in the nervous system. AJNR Am J 
Neuroradiol . 2005;26:289–297.
32. Petropoulou KA, Gordon SM, Prayson RA, et al. West 
Nile virus meningoencephalitis: MR imaging findings. 
AJNR Am J Neuroradiol . 2005;26:1986–1995.
33. Kalita J, Misra UK. Comparison of CT scan and MRI 
findings in the diagnosis of Japanese encephalitis. J 
Neurol Sci . 2000;174:3–8.
34. Kalita J, Misra UK, Pandey S, et al. A comparison of 
clinical and radiological findings in adults and children 
with Japanese encephalitis. Arch Neurol . 
2003;60:1760–1764.
35. Handique SK, Das RR, Barman K, et al. Temporal lobe 
involvement in Japanese encephalitis: problems in 
differential diagnosis. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol . 
2006;27:1027–1031.
36. Tyler KL, Pape J, Goody RJ, et al. CSF findings in 250 
patients with serologically confirmed West Nile virus 
meningitis and encephalitis. Neurology . 2006;66:  
361–365.
37. Simko JP , Caliendo AM, Hogle K, et al. Differences in 
laboratory findings for cerebrospinal fluid specimens 
obtained from patients with meningitis or encephalitis 
due to herpes simplex virus (HSV) documented by 
detection of HSV DNA. Clin Infect Dis . 2002;35:414–419.
38. Whitley RJ, Soong SJ, Linneman C Jr, et al. Herpes 
simplex encephalitis: clinical assessment. JAMA . 
1982;247:317–320.
39. Kanra G, Isik P , Kara A, et al. Complementary findings in 
clinical and epidemiologic features of mumps and mumps 
meningoencephalitis in children without mumps 
vaccination. Pediatr Int . 2004;46:663–668.
40. Whitley RJ, Alford CA, Hirsch MS, et al. Vidarabine 
versus acyclovir therapy in herpes simplex encephalitis. N 
Engl J Med . 1986;314:144–149.
41. Deresiewicz RL, Thaler SJ, Hsu L, et al. Clinical and 
neuroradiographic manifestations of eastern equine 
encephalitis. N Engl J Med . 1997;336:1867–1874.
42. Miller RF , Fox JD, Thomas P , et al. Acute lumbosacral 
polyradiculopathy due to cytomegalovirus in advanced 
HIV disease: CSF findings in 17 patients. J Neurol 
Neurosurg Psychiatry . 1996;61:456–460.
43. Debiasi RL, Kleinschmidt-Demasters BK, Weinberg A, 
et al. Use of PCR for the diagnosis of herpesvirus 
infections of the central nervous system. J Clin Virol . 
2002;25(suppl 1):S5–S11.
44. Lakeman FD, Whitley RJ. Diagnosis of herpes simplex 
encephalitis: application of polymerase chain reaction to 
cerebrospinal fluid from brain-biopsied patients and 
correlation with disease. National Institute of allergy and 
infectious diseases collaborative antiviral study group. J 
Infect Dis . 1995;171:857–863.
45. Weil AA, Glaser CA, Amad Z, et al. Patients with 
suspected herpes simplex encephalitis: rethinking an 
initial negative polymerase chain reaction result. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2002;34:1154–1157.
46. Aurelius E, Johansson B, Skoldenberg B, et al. Rapid 
diagnosis of herpes simplex encephalitis by nested 
polymerase chain reaction assay of cerebrospinal fluid. 
Lancet . 1991;337:189–192.
47. Kamei S, Takasu T, Morishima T, et al. Serial changes of 
intrathecal viral loads evaluated by chemiluminescence 
assay and nested PCR with aciclovir treatment in herpes 
simplex virus encephalitis. Intern Med . 2004;43:  
796–801.
48. Wildemann B, Ehrhart K, Storch-Hagenlocher B, et al. 
Quantitation of herpes simplex virus type 1 DNA in cells 
of cerebrospinal fluid of patients with herpes simplex 
virus encephalitis. Neurology . 1997;48:1341–1346.
49. Domingues RB, Lakeman FD, Mayo MS, et al. 
Application of competitive PCR to cerebrospinal fluid 
samples from patients with herpes simplex encephalitis. J 
Clin Microbiol . 1998;36:2229–2234.
50. Tebas P , Nease RF , Storch GA. Use of the polymerase 
chain reaction in the diagnosis of herpes simplex 
encephalitis: a decision analysis model. Am J Med . 
1998;105:287–295.
51. Nagel MA, Forghani B, Mahalingam R, et al. The value of 
detecting anti-VZV IgG antibody in CSF to diagnose 
VZV vasculopathy. Neurology . 2007;68:1069–1073.
52. Weinberg A, Li S, Palmer M, et al. Quantitative CSF PCR 
in Epstein-barr virus infections of the central nervous 
system. Ann Neurol . 2002;52:543–548.53. Weinberg A, Bloch KC, Li S, et al. Dual infections of the 
central nervous system with Epstein-barr virus. J Infect 
Dis. 2005;191:234–237.
54. Bossolasco S, Calori G, Moretti F , et al. Prognostic 
significance of JC virus DNA levels in cerebrospinal fluid 
of patients with HIV-associated progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy. Clin Infect Dis . 2005;40:738–744.
55. Solomon T, Ooi MH, Beasley DW , et al. West Nile 
encephalitis. BMJ . 2003;326:865–869.
56. Brenner W , Storch G, Buller R, et al. West Nile virus 
encephalopathy in an allogeneic stem cell transplant 
recipient: use of quantitative PCR for diagnosis and 
assessment of viral clearance. Bone Marrow Transplant . 
2005;36:369–370.
57. Hiatt B, DesJardin L, Carter T, et al. A fatal case of West 
Nile virus infection in a bone marrow transplant 
recipient. Clin Infect Dis . 2003;37:e129–e131.
58. Busch MP , Kleinman SH, Tobler LH, et al. Virus and 
antibody dynamics in acute West Nile virus infection. J 
Infect Dis . 2008;198:984–993.
59. Tardei G, Ruta S, Chitu V , et al. Evaluation of 
immunoglobulin M (IgM) and IgG enzyme 
immunoassays in serologic diagnosis of West Nile virus 
infection. J Clin Microbiol . 2000;38:2232–2239.
60. Kapoor H, Signs K, Somsel P , et al. Persistence of West 
Nile virus (WNV) IgM antibodies in cerebrospinal fluid 
from patients with CNS disease. J Clin Virol . 
2004;31:289–291.
61. Leber AL, et al. Multicenter evaluation of BioFire 
FilmArray meningitis/encephalitis panel for detection of 
bacteria, viruses, and yeast in cerebrospinal fluid 
specimens. J Clin Microbiol . 2016;54:2251–2261.
62. Schlaberg R, et al. Validation of metagenomic 
next-generation sequencing tests for universal pathogen 
detection. Arch Pathol Lab Med . 2017;141:776–786.
63. Solomon T, Hart IJ, Beeching NJ. Viral encephalitis: a 
clinician’s guide. Pract Neurol . 2007;7:288–305.
64. los Reyes EC, McJunkin JE, Glauser TA, et al. Periodic 
lateralized epileptiform discharges in la crosse 
encephalitis, a worrisome subgroup: clinical presentation, 
electroencephalogram (EEG) patterns, and long-term 
neurologic outcome. J Child Neurol . 2008;23:167–172.
65. Misra UK, Kalita J. Neurophysiological studies in herpes 
simplex encephalitis. Electromyogr Clin Neurophysiol . 
1998;38:177–182.
66. Gandelman-Marton R, Kimiagar I, Itzhaki A, et al. 
Electroencephalography findings in adult patients with 
West Nile virus-associated meningitis and 
meningoencephalitis. Clin Infect Dis . 2003;37:1573–1578.
67. Rodriguez AJ, Westmoreland BF . Electroencephalographic 
characteristics of patients infected with West Nile virus. J 
Clin Neurophysiol . 2007;24:386–389.
68. Kamei S, Sekizawa T, Shiota H, et al. Evaluation of 
combination therapy using aciclovir and corticosteroid in 
adult patients with herpes simplex virus encephalitis. J 
Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry . 2005;76:1544–1549.
69. Openshaw H, Cantin EM. Corticosteroids in herpes 
simplex virus encephalitis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry . 
2005;76:1469.
70. Shives KD, Tyler KL, Beckham JD. Molecular 
mechanisms of neuroinflammation and injury during 
acute viral encephalitis. J Neuroimmunol . 2017;308:  
102–111.
71. Baringer JR, Pisani P . Herpes simplex virus genomes in 
human nervous system tissue analyzed by polymerase 
chain reaction. Ann Neurol . 1994;36:823–829.
72. Davis LE, Johnson RT. An explanation for the localization 
of herpes simplex encephalitis? Ann Neurol . 1979;5:2–5.
73. Baringer JR, Pisani P . Herpes simplex virus genomes in 
human nervous system tissue analyzed by polymerase 
chain reaction. Ann Neurol . 1994;36:823–829.
74. Debiasi RL, Kleinschmidt-Demasters BK, Richardson-
Burns S, et al. Central nervous system apoptosis in 
human herpes simplex virus and cytomegalovirus 
encephalitis. J Infect Dis . 2002;186:1547–1557.
75. Sabri F , Granath F , Hjalmarsson A, et al. Modulation of 
sFas indicates apoptosis in human herpes simplex 
encephalitis. J Neuroimmunol . 2006;171:171–176.
76. Lundberg P , Ramakrishna C, Brown J, et al. The immune 
response to herpes simplex virus type 1 infection in 
susceptible mice is a major cause of central nervous 
system pathology resulting in fatal encephalitis. J Virol . 
2008;82:7078–7088.
77. Marques CP , Hu S, Sheng W , et al. Microglial cells initiate 
vigorous yet non-protective immune responses during 
HSV-1 brain infection. Virus Res . 2006;121:1–10.
78. Zhang SY , Jouanguy E, Ugolini S, et al. TLR3 deficiency 
in patients with herpes simplex encephalitis. Science . 
2007;317:1522–1527.
79. Cag Y , et al. Managing atypical and typical herpetic 
central nervous system infections: results of a 
multinational study. Clin Microbiol Infect . 2016;22:568.
e9–568.e17.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1247.e2
Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes80. Koskiniemi M, Piiparinen H, Mannonen L, et al. Herpes 
encephalitis is a disease of middle aged and elderly 
people: polymerase chain reaction for detection of herpes 
simplex virus in the CSF of 516 patients with 
encephalitis. The study group. J Neurol Neurosurg 
Psychiatry . 1996;60:174–178.
81. Johnson RT. Acute encephalitis. Clin Infect Dis . 
1996;23:219–224.
82. Skoldenberg B, Forsgren M, Alestig K, et al. Acyclovir 
versus vidarabine in herpes simplex encephalitis: 
randomised multicentre study in consecutive Swedish 
patients. Lancet . 1984;2:707–711.
83. Fodor PA, Levin MJ, Weinberg A, et al. Atypical herpes 
simplex virus encephalitis diagnosed by PCR 
amplification of viral DNA from CSF . Neurology . 
1998;51:554–559.
84. Klapper PE, Cleator GM, Longson M. Mild forms of 
herpes encephalitis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry . 
1984;47:1247–1250.
85. Whitley RJ, Soong SJ, Dolin R, et al. Adenine arabinoside 
therapy of biopsy-proved herpes simplex encephalitis. 
National Institute of allergy and infectious diseases 
collaborative antiviral study. N Engl J Med . 
1977;297:289–294.
86. Gnann JW Jr, et al. Herpes simplex encephalitis: lack of 
clinical benefit of Long-term valacyclovir therapy. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2015;61:683–691.
87. Erdem H, et al. Results of a multinational study suggest 
the need for rapid diagnosis and early antiviral treatment 
at the onset of herpetic meningoencephalitis. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 2015;59:3084–3089.
88. Singh TD, et al. Predictors of outcome in HSV 
encephalitis. J Neurol . 2016;263:277–289.
89. Sili U, Kaya A, Mert A, et al. Herpes simplex virus 
encephalitis: clinical manifestations, diagnosis and 
outcome in 106 adult patients. J Clin Virol . 
2014;60:112–118.
90. Benson PC, Swadron SP . Empiric acyclovir is infrequently 
initiated in the emergency department to patients 
ultimately diagnosed with encephalitis. Ann Emerg Med . 
2006;47:100–105.
91. Whitley RJ, Alford CA, Hirsch MS, et al. Factors 
indicative of outcome in a comparative trial of acyclovir 
and vidarabine for biopsy-proven herpes simplex 
encephalitis. Infection . 1987;15(suppl 1):S3–S8.
92. Tan IL, McArthur JC, Venkatesan A, et al. Atypical 
manifestations and poor outcome of herpes simplex 
encephalitis in the immunocompromised. Neurology . 
2012;79:2125–2132.
93. Poissy J, Champenois K, Dewilde A, et al. Impact of 
herpes simplex virus load and red blood cells in 
cerebrospinal fluid upon herpes simplex meningo-
encephalitis outcome. BMC Inf Dis . 2012;12:356–362.
94. Schloss L, Falk KI, Skoog E, et al. Monitoring of herpes 
simplex virus DNA types 1 and 2 viral load in 
cerebrospinal fluid by real-time PCR in patients with 
herpes simplex encephalitis. J Med Virol . 
2009;81:1432–1437.
95. Safain MG, Roguski M, Kryzanski JT, et al. A review of 
the combined medical and surgical management in 
patients with herpes simplex encephalitis. Clin Neurol 
Neurosurg . 2015;128:10–16.
96. Shalabi M, Whitley RJ. Recurrent benign lymphocytic 
meningitis. Clin Infect Dis . 2006;43:1194–1197.
97. Tedder DG, Ashley R, Tyler KL, et al. Herpes simplex 
virus infection as a cause of benign recurrent 
lymphocytic meningitis. Ann Intern Med . 
1994;121:334–338.
98. Miller S, Mateen FJ, Aksamit AJ. Herpes simplex virus 2 
meningitis: a retrospective cohort study. J Neurov . 
2013;19:166–171.
99. Aurelius E, Franzen-Hohl E, Glimaker M, et al. 
Long-term valacyclovir suppressive treatment after herpes 
simplex virus type 2 meningitis: a double-blind, 
randomized controlled trial. Clin Infect Dis . 
2012;54:1304–1313.
100. Gobbi C, Tosi C, Stadler C, et al. Recurrent myelitis 
associated with herpes simplex virus type 2. Eur Neurol . 
2001;46:215–218.
101. Nakajima H, Furutama D, Kimura F , et al. Herpes 
simplex virus type 2 infections presenting as brainstem 
encephalitis and recurrent myelitis. Intern Med . 
1995;34:839–842.
102. Shyu WC, Lin JC, Chang BC, et al. Recurrent ascending 
myelitis: an unusual presentation of herpes simplex virus 
type 1 infection. Ann Neurol . 1993;34:625–627.
103. Guess HA, Broughton DD, Melton LJ 3rd, et al. 
Population-based studies of varicella complications. 
Pediatrics . 1986;78(4 Pt 2):723–727.
104. Puchhammer-Stockl E, Kunz C, Wagner G, et al. 
Detection of varicella zoster virus (VZV) DNA in fetal 
tissue by polymerase chain reaction. J Perinat Med . 
1994;22:65–69.105. Shiihara T, Kato M, Konno A, et al. Acute cerebellar 
ataxia and consecutive cerebellitis produced by glutamate 
receptor delta2 autoantibody. Brain Dev . 
2007;29:254–256.
106. Pahud BA, Glaser CA, Dekker CL, et al. Varicella zoster 
disease of the central nervous system: epidemiological, 
clinical, and laboratory features 10 years after the 
introduction of the varicella vaccine. J Infect Dis . 
2011;203:316–323.
107. Devinsky O, Cho ES, Petito CK, et al. Herpes zoster 
myelitis. Brain . 1991;114(Pt 3):1181–1196.
108. Gilden DH, Beinlich BR, Rubinstien EM, et al. 
Varicella-zoster virus myelitis: an expanding spectrum. 
Neurology . 1994;44:1818–1823.
109. Steiner I, Kennedy PG, Pachner AR. The neurotropic 
herpes viruses: herpes simplex and varicella-zoster. 
Lancet Neurol . 2007;6:1015–1028.
110. Gilden DH, Kleinschmidt-Demasters BK, LaGuardia JJ, 
et al. Neurologic complications of the reactivation of 
varicella-zoster virus. N Engl J Med . 2000;342:635–645.
111. Gilden D. Varicella zoster virus and central nervous 
system syndromes. Herpes . 2004;11(suppl 2):89A–94A.
112. Gilden DH, Lipton HL, Wolf JS, et al. Two patients with 
unusual forms of varicella-zoster virus vasculopathy. N 
Engl J Med . 2002;347:1500–1503.
113. Grahn A, Studahl M. Varicella-zoster virus infections of 
the central nervous system—prognosis, diagnostics and 
treatment. J Infect . 2015;71:281–293.
114. DeBroucker T, Mailles A, Chabrier S, et al. Acute 
varicella zoster encephalitis without evidence of primary 
vasculopathy in a case-series of 20 patients. Clin 
Microbiol Infect . 2012;18:808–819.
115. Nagel MA, Cohrs RJ, Mahalingam R, et al. The varicella 
zoster virus vasculopathies: clinical, CSF , imaging, and 
virologic features. Neurology . 2008;70:853–860.
116. Melanson M, Chalk C, Georgevich L, et al. Varicella-
zoster virus DNA in CSF and arteries in delayed 
contralateral hemiplegia: evidence for viral invasion of 
cerebral arteries. Neurology . 1996;47:569–570.
117. Echevarria JM, Casas I, Tenorio A, et al. Detection of 
varicellazoster virus-specific DNA sequences in 
cerebrospinal fluid from patients with acute aseptic 
meningitis and no cutaneous lesions. J Med Virol . 
1994;43:331–335.
118. Aberle SW , Aberle JH, Steininger C, et al. Quantitative 
real time PCR detection of varicella-zoster virus DNA in 
cerebrospinal fluid in patients with neurological disease. 
Med Microbiol Immunol . 2005;194:7–12.
119. Rafailidis PI, Mourtzoukou EG, Varbobitis IC, et al. 
Severe cytomegalovirus infection in apparently 
immunocompetent patients: a systematic review. Virology 
J. 2008;5:47–54.
120. Portegies P , Solod L, Cinque P , et al. Guidelines for the 
diagnosis and management of neurological complications 
of HIV infection. Eur J Neurol . 2004;11:297–304.
121. Cinque P , Cleator GM, Weber T, et al. Diagnosis and 
clinical management of neurological disorders caused by 
cytomegalovirus in AIDS patients. European union 
concerted action on virus meningitis and encephalitis. J 
Neurovirol . 1998;4:120–132.
122. Arribas JR, Storch GA, Clifford DB, et al. 
Cytomegalovirus encephalitis. Ann Intern Med . 
1996;125:577–587.
123. Gozlan J, el Amrani M, Baudrimont M, et al. A 
prospective evaluation of clinical criteria and polymerase 
chain reaction assay of cerebrospinal fluid for the 
diagnosis of cytomegalovirus-related neurological 
diseases during AIDS. AIDS . 1995;9:253–260.
124. Doja A, Bitnun A, Ford Jones EL, et al. Pediatric 
Epstein-barr virus-associated encephalitis: 10-year review. 
J Child Neurol . 2006;21:384–391.
125. Martelius T, Lappalainen M, Palomaki M, et al. Clinical 
characteristics of patients with epstein barr virus in 
cerebrospinal fluid. BMC Infect Dis . 2011;11:281–287.
126. Katramados AM, Sripathi N, Brar I, et al. Intravenous 
ganciclovir consistently induces remission of persistent 
Epstein-barr encephalitis in an HIV-1-infected patient. 
AIDS . 2007;21:778–780.
127. Isaacson E, Glaser CA, Forghani B, et al. Evidence of 
human herpesvirus 6 infection in 4 immunocompetent 
patients with encephalitis. Clin Infect Dis . 
2005;40:890–893.
128. McCullers JA, Lakeman FD, Whitley RJ. Human 
herpesvirus 6 is associated with focal encephalitis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1995;21:571–576.
129. Drobyski WR, Knox KK, Majewski D, et al. Brief report: 
fatal encephalitis due to variant B human herpesvirus-6 
infection in a bone marrow-transplant recipient. N Engl J 
Med . 1994;330:1356–1360.
130. Singh N, Paterson DL. Encephalitis caused by human 
herpesvirus-6 in transplant recipients: relevance of a 
novel neurotropic virus. Transplantation . 
2000;69:2474–2479.131. Zerr DM. Human herpesvirus 6 and central nervous 
system disease in hematopoietic cell transplantation. J 
Clin Virol . 2006;37(suppl 1):S52–S56.
132. Dewhurst S. Human herpesvirus type 6 and human 
herpesvirus type 7 infections of the central nervous 
system. Herpes . 2004;11(suppl 2):105A–111A.
133. Wainwright MS, Martin PL, Morse RP , et al. Human 
herpesvirus 6 limbic encephalitis after stem cell 
transplantation. Ann Neurol . 2001;50:612–619.
134. Wang FZ, Linde A, Hagglund H, et al. Human 
herpesvirus 6 DNA in cerebrospinal fluid specimens from 
allogeneic bone marrow transplant patients: does it have 
clinical significance? Clin Infect Dis . 1999;28:562–568.
135. McCullers JA, Lakeman FD, Whitley RJ. Human 
herpesvirus 6 is associated with focal encephalitis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1995;21:571–576.
136. Cole PD, Stiles J, Boulad F , et al. Successful treatment of 
human herpesvirus 6 encephalitis in a bone marrow 
transplant recipient. Clin Infect Dis . 1998;27:653–654.
137. Mookerjee BP , Vogelsang G. Human herpes virus-6 
encephalitis after bone marrow transplantation: successful 
treatment with ganciclovir. Bone Marrow Transplant . 
1997;20:905–906.
138. Wang FZ, Linde A, Hagglund H, et al. Human 
herpesvirus 6 DNA in cerebrospinal fluid specimens from 
allogeneic bone marrow transplant patients: does it have 
clinical significance? Clin Infect Dis . 1999;28:562–568.
139. Zerr DM, Gupta D, Huang ML, et al. Effect of antivirals 
on human herpesvirus 6 replication in hematopoietic 
stem cell transplant recipients. Clin Infect Dis . 
2002;34:309–317.
140. Huff JL, Barry PA. B-virus (cercopithecine herpesvirus 1) 
infection in humans and macaques: potential for zoonotic 
disease. Emerg Infect Dis . 2003;9:246–250.
141. Cohen JI, Davenport DS, Stewart JA, et al. 
Recommendations for prevention of and therapy for 
exposure to B virus (cercopithecine herpesvirus 1). Clin 
Infect Dis . 2002;35:1191–1203.
142. Wasay M, Khatri IA, Abd-Allah F . Arbovirus infections of 
the nervous system: current trends and future threats. 
Neurology . 2015;84:421–423.
143. Bogovic P , Strle F . Tick-borne encephalitis: a review of 
epidemiology, clinical characteristics, and management. 
World J Clin Cases . 2015;3:430–441.
144. Lustig S, Halevy M, Ben Nathan D, et al. The role of host 
immunocompetence in neuroinvasion of sindbis virus. 
Arch Virol . 1999;144:1159–1171.
145. Michaelis M, Kleinschmidt MC, Doerr HW , et al. 
Minocycline inhibits West Nile virus replication and 
apoptosis in human neuronal cells. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2007;60:981–986.
146. Parquet MC, Kumatori A, Hasebe F , et al. West Nile 
virus–induced bax-dependent apoptosis. FEBS Lett . 
2001;500:17–24.
147. Samuel MA, Morrey JD, Diamond MS. Caspase 
3-dependent cell death of neurons contributes to the 
pathogenesis of West Nile virus encephalitis. J Virol . 
2007;81:2614–2623.
148. Kramer LD, Li J, Shi PY . West Nile virus. Lancet Neurol . 
2007;6:171–181.
149. Iwamoto M, Jernigan DB, Guasch A, et al. Transmission 
of West Nile virus from an organ donor to four transplant 
recipients. N Engl J Med . 2003;348:2196–2203.
150. Possible West Nile virus transmission to an infant 
through breast-feeding—Michigan, 2002. MMWR Morb 
Mortal Wkly Rep . 2002;51:877–878.
151. Hinckley AF , O’Leary DR, Hayes EB. Transmission of 
West Nile virus through human breast milk seems to be 
rare. Pediatrics . 2007;119:e666–e671.
152. Pealer LN, Marfin AA, Petersen LR, et al. Transmission of 
West Nile virus through blood transfusion in the United 
States in 2002. N Engl J Med . 2003;349:1236–1245.
153. Watson JT, Pertel PE, Jones RC, et al. Clinical 
characteristics and functional outcomes of West Nile 
fever. Ann Intern Med . 2004;141:360–365.
154. Bode AV , Sejvar JJ, Pape WJ, et al. West Nile virus 
disease: a descriptive study of 228 patients hospitalized in 
a 4-county region of Colorado in 2003. Clin Infect Dis . 
2006;42:1234–1240.
155. Davis LE, Debiasi R, Goade DE, et al. West Nile virus 
neuroinvasive disease. Ann Neurol . 2006;60:286–300.
156. Debiasi RL, Tyler KL. West Nile virus 
meningoencephalitis. Nat Clin Pract Neurol . 
2006;2:264–275.
157. Sejvar JJ, Haddad MB, Tierney BC, et al. Neurologic 
manifestations and outcome of West Nile virus infection. 
JAMA . 2003;290:511–515.
158. Sejvar JJ, Leis AA, Stokic DS, et al. Acute flaccid paralysis 
and West Nile virus infection. Emerg Infect Dis . 
2003;9:788–793.
159. Medarov BI, Multz AS, Brown W , et al. West Nile 
meningoencephalitis and rhabdomyolysis. Lancet Infect 
Dis. 2005;5:2.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 89  Encephalitis
1247.e3
160. Bains HS, Jampol LM, Caughron MC, et al. Vitritis and 
chorioretinitis in a patient with West Nile virus infection. 
Arch Ophthalmol . 2003;121:205–207.
161. Smith RD, Konoplev S, DeCourten-Myers G, et al. West 
Nile virus encephalitis with myositis and orchitis. Hum 
Pathol . 2004;35:254–258.
162. Fratkin JD, Leis AA, Stokic DS, et al. Spinal cord 
neuropathology in human West Nile virus infection. Arch 
Pathol Lab Med . 2004;128:533–537.
163. Jean CM, Honarmand S, Louie JK, et al. Risk factors for 
West Nile virus neuroinvasive disease, California, 2005. 
Emerg Infect Dis . 2007;13:1918–1920.
164. Nash D, Mostashari F , Fine A, et al. The outbreak of West 
Nile virus infection in the New Y ork City area in 1999. N 
Engl J Med . 2001;344:1807–1814.
165. Y akub I, Lillibridge KM, Moran A, et al. Single nucleotide 
polymorphisms in genes for 2’-5’-oligoadenylate 
synthetase and RNase L inpatients hospitalized  
with West Nile virus infection. J Infect Dis . 
2005;192:1741–1748.
166. Lim JK, Louie CY , Glaser C, et al. Genetic deficiency of 
chemokine receptor CCR5 is a strong risk factor for 
symptomatic West Nile virus infection: a meta-analysis  
of 4 cohorts in the US epidemic. J Infect Dis . 
2008;197:262–265.
167. Sejvar JJ, Marfin AA. Manifestations of West Nile 
neuroinvasive disease. Rev Med Virol . 2006;16:  
209–224.
168. Jeha LE, Sila CA, Lederman RJ, et al. West Nile virus 
infection: a new acute paralytic illness. Neurology . 
2003;61:55–59.
169. Shi PY , Wong SJ. Serologic diagnosis of West Nile virus 
infection. Expert Rev Mol Diagn . 2003;3:733–741.
170. Pierce KK, et al. A live attenuated chimeric West Nile 
virus vaccine, rWN/DEN4delta30, is well tolerated and 
immunogenic in Flavivirus-naive older adult volunteers. J 
Infect Dis . 2017;215:52–55.
171. Pyrgos V , Y ounus F . High-dose steroids in the 
management of acute flaccid paralysis due to West Nile 
virus infection. Scand J Infect Dis . 2004;36:509–512.
172. Sejvar JJ. The long-term outcomes of human West Nile 
virus infection. Clin Infect Dis . 2007;44:1617–1624.
173. Garcia MN, Hause AM, Walker CM, et al. Evaluation of 
prolonged fatigue post-West Nile virus infection and 
association of fatigue with elevated antiviral and 
proinflammatory cytokines. Viral Immunol . 
2014;27:327–333.
174. Monath TP , McCarthy K, Bedford P , et al. Clinical proof 
of principle for ChimeriVax: recombinant live, attenuated 
vaccines against flavivirus infections. Vaccine . 
2002;20:1004–1018.
175. Brinker K, Monath T. The acute disease. In: Monath T, 
ed. St. Louis Encephalitis . Washington, DC: American 
Public Health Associates; 1980:503–534.
176. Southern PM Jr, Smith JW , Luby JP , et al. Clinical and 
laboratory features of epidemic St. Louis encephalitis. 
Ann Intern Med . 1969;71:681–689.
177. Wasay M, Diaz-Arrastia R, Suss RA, et al. St Louis 
encephalitis: a review of 11 cases in a 1995 Dallas, Tex, 
epidemic. Arch Neurol . 2000;57:114–118.
178. Monath TP , Nystrom RR, Bailey RE, et al. 
Immunoglobulin M antibody capture enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of St. Louis 
encephalitis. J Clin Microbiol . 1984;20:784–790.
179. Rahal JJ, Anderson J, Rosenberg C, et al. Effect of 
interferon-alpha2b therapy on St. Louis viral 
meningoencephalitis: clinical and laboratory results of a 
pilot study. J Infect Dis . 2004;190:1084–1087.
180. Beckham JD, Pastula DM, Massey A, et al. Zika virus as 
an emerging global pathogen: neurological complications 
of Zika virus. JAMA Neurol . 2016;73:875–879.
181. da Silva IRF , Frontera JA, Bispo de Filippis AM, et al. 
Neurologic complications associated with the Zika virus 
in Brazilian adults. JAMA Neurol . 2017;74:1190–1198.
182. Loftin KC, Diallo AA, Herbert MW , et al. Five-year 
surveillance of West Nile and eastern equine encephalitis 
viruses in southeastern Virginia. J Environ Health . 
2006;68:33–40.
183. Mitchell CJ, Niebylski ML, Smith GC, et al. Isolation of 
eastern equine encephalitis virus from Aedes albopictus  in 
Florida. Science . 1992;257:526–527.
184. Goldfield M, Taylor BF , Welsh JN, et al. The persistence 
of eastern encephalitis serologic reactivity following overt 
and inapparent human infection—an eight year 
follow-up. Am J Epidemiol . 1968;87:50–57.
185. Przelomski MM, O’Rourke E, Grady GF , et al. Eastern 
equine encephalitis in Massachusetts: a report of 16 cases, 
1970-1984. Neurology . 1988;38:736–739.
186. Meyer KF , Haring CM, Howitt B. The etiology of 
epizootic encephalomyelitis of horses in the San Joaquin 
Valley, 1930. Science . 1931;74:227–228.
186a. Forrester NL, Kenney JL, Deardorff E, et al. Western 
Equine Encephalitis submergence: Lack of evidence  for a decline in virus virulence. Virology . 2008;380:  
170–172.
187. Delfraro A, Burgueño A, Noelia M, et al. Fatal human 
case of western equine encephalitis, Uruguay. Emerg 
Infect Dis . 2011;17:952–954.
188. Beck CE, Wyckoff RW . Venezuelan equine 
encephalomyelitis. Science . 1938;88:530.
189. Griffin DE, Levine B, Tyor WR, et al. The immune 
response in viral encephalitis. Semin Immunol . 
1992;4:111–119.
190. Rivas F , Diaz LA, Cardenas VM, et al. Epidemic 
Venezuelan equine encephalitis in La Guajira, Colombia, 
1995. J Infect Dis . 1997;175:828–832.
191. Weaver SC, Salas R, Rico-Hesse R, et al. Re-emergence of 
epidemic Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis in South 
America. VEE study group. Lancet . 1996;348:436–440.
192. Bowen GS, Calisher CH. Virological and serological 
studies of Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis in 
humans. J Clin Microbiol . 1976;4:22–27.
193. Bowen GS, Fashinell TR, Dean PB, et al. Clinical aspects 
of human Venezuelan equine encephalitis in Texas. Bull 
Pan Am Health Organ . 1976;10:46–57.
194. Molina OM, Morales MC, Soto ID, et al. Venezuelan 
equine encephalitis. 1995 outbreak: clinical profile of the 
case with neurologic involvement. Rev Neurol . 
1999;29:296–298.
195. Lemant J, Boisson V , Winer A, et al. Serious acute 
chikungunya virus infection requiring intensive care 
during the Réunion Island outbreak in 2005-2006. Crit 
Care Med . 2008;36:2536–2541.
196. Gérardin P , Barau G, Michault A, et al. Multidisciplinary 
prospective study of mother-to-child chikungunya virus 
infections on the Island of la Réunion. PLoS Med . 
2008;5:e60.
197. Tournebize P , Charlin C, Lagrange M. Neurological 
manifestations in chikungunya: about 23 cases collected 
in Réunion Island. Rev Neurol (Paris) . 2009;165:  
48–51.
198. Ganesan K, Diwan A, Shankar SK, et al. Chikungunya 
encephalomyeloradiculitis: report of 2 cases with 
neuroimaging and 1 case with autopsy findings. AJNR 
Am J Neuroradiol . 2008;29:1636–1637.
199. Lebrun G, Chadda K, Reboux AH, et al. Guillain-Barré 
syndrome after chikungunya infection. Emerg Infect Dis . 
2009;15:495–496.
200. Gérardin P , Couderc T, Bintner M, et al. Chikungunya 
virus-associated encephalitis: a cohort study on la 
Réunion Island, 2005-2009. Neurology . 2016;86:94–102.
201. Thompson WH, Kalfayan B, Anslow RO. Isolation of 
California encephalitis group virus from a fatal human 
illness. Am J Epidemiol . 1965;81:245–253.
202. Rust RS, Thompson WH, Matthews CG, et al. La Crosse 
and other forms of California encephalitis. J Child Neurol . 
1999;14:1–14.
203. Watts DM, Pantuwatana S, DeFoliart GR, et al. 
Transovarial transmission of LaCrosse virus (California 
encephalitis group) in the mosquito, Aedes triseriatus . 
Science . 1973;182:1140–1141.
204. Haddow AD, Bixler D, Odoi A. The spatial epidemiology 
and clinical features of reported cases of LaCrosse virus 
infection in West Virginia from 2003 to 2007. BMC Infect 
Dis. 2011;11:29–38.
205. Cramblett HG, Stegmiller H, Spencer C. California 
encephalitis virus infections in children: clinical and 
laboratory studies. JAMA . 1966;198:108–112.
206. McJunkin JE, los Reyes EC, Irazuzta JE, et al. La Crosse 
encephalitis in children. N Engl J Med . 2001;344:801–807.
207. Mayo D, Karabatsos N, Scarano FJ, et al. Jamestown 
canyon virus: seroprevalence in Connecticut. Emerg Infect 
Dis. 2001;7:911–912.
208. Human Jamestown Canyon virus Infection—Montana, 
2009. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 2011;60:652–655.
209. McJunkin JE, Nahata MC, DeLosReyes EC, et al. Safety 
and pharmacokinetics of ribavirin for the treatment  
of LaCrosse encephalitis. Pediatr Infect Dis J . 
2011;30:860–865.
210. Hilty MD, Haynes RE, Azimi PH, et al. California 
encephalitis in children. Am J Dis Child . 1972;124:  
530–533.
211. Expanding poliomyelitis and measles surveillance 
networks to establish surveillance for acute meningitis 
and encephalitis syndromes—Bangladesh, China, India, 
2006-2008. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 
2012;61:1008–1011.
212. Hills SL, Griggs AC, Fischer M. Japanese encephalitis in 
travelers from non-endemic countries, 1973-2008. Am J 
Trop Med Hyg . 2010;82:930–936.
213. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Japanese 
encephalitis in two children—United States, 2010. 
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 2011;60:276–278.
214. Kumar R, Mathur A, Kumar A, et al. Clinical features and 
prognostic indicators of Japanese encephalitis in children 
in Lucknow (India). Indian J Med Res . 1990;91:321–327.215. Solomon T, Dung NM, Kneen R, et al. Seizures and 
raised intracranial pressure in Vietnamese patients with 
Japanese encephalitis. Brain . 2002;125(Pt 5):1084–1093.
216. Misra UK, Kalita J. Spectrum of movement disorders in 
encephalitis. J Neurol . 2010;257:2052–2058.
217. Basumatary LJ, Raja D, Bhuyan D, et al. Clinical and 
radiological spectrum of Japanese encephalitis. J Neurol 
Sci. 2013;325:15–21.
218. Dung NM, Turtle L, Chong WK, et al. An evaluation of 
the usefulness of neuroimaging for the diagnosis of 
Japanese encephalitis. J Neurol . 2009;256:2052–2060.
219. Burke DS, Nisalak A, Ussery MA, et al. Kinetics of IgM 
and IgG responses to Japanese encephalitis virus in 
human serum and cerebrospinal fluid. J Infect Dis . 
1985;151:1093–1099.
220. Burke DS, Nisalak A, Lorsomrudee W , et al. Virus-
specific antibody-producing cells in blood and 
cerebrospinal fluid in acute Japanese encephalitis. J Med 
Virol . 1985;17:283–292.
221. Igarashi A, Tanaka M, Morita K, et al. Detection of West 
Nile and Japanese encephalitis viral genome sequences  
in cerebrospinal fluid from acute encephalitis cases in 
Karachi, Pakistan. Microbiol Immunol . 1994;38:  
827–830.
222. Solomon T, Thao LT, Dung NM, et al. Rapid diagnosis  
of Japanese encephalitis by using an immunoglobulin  
M dot enzyme immunoassay. J Clin Microbiol . 
1998;36:2030–2034.
223. Moore CE, Blacksell SD, Taojaikong T, et al. A 
prospective assessment of the accuracy of commercial 
IgM ELISAs in diagnosis of Japanese encephalitis virus 
infections in patients with suspected central nervous 
system infections in Laos. Am J Trop Med Hyg . 
2012;87:171–178.
224. Desai A, Ravi V , Guru SC, et al. Detection of 
autoantibodies to neural antigens in the CSF of Japanese 
encephalitis patients and correlation of findings with the 
outcome. J Neurol Sci . 1994;122:109–116.
225. Ooi MH, Lewthwaite P , Lai BF , et al. The epidemiology, 
clinical features, and long-term prognosis of Japanese 
encephalitis in Central Sarawak, Malaysia, 1997-2005. 
Clin Infect Dis . 2008;47:458–468.
226. Hoke CH, Nisalak A, Sangawhipa N, et al. Protection 
against Japanese encephalitis by inactivated vaccines. N 
Engl J Med . 1988;319:608–614.
227. Fischer M, Lindsey N, Staples JE, et al. Japanese 
encephalitis vaccines: recommendations of the advisory 
committee on immunization practices (ACIP). MMWR 
Recomm Rep . 2010;59(RR–1):1–21.
228. Hennessy S, Liu Z, Tsai TF , et al. Effectiveness of 
live-attenuated Japanese encephalitis vaccine (SA14-14-2): 
a case-control study. Lancet . 1996;347:1583–1586.
229. Khandaker G, Zurynski Y , Buttery J, et al. Neurologic 
complications of influenza a(H1N1) pdm09. Neurology . 
2012;79:1474–1481.
230. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Severe 
influenza among children and young adults with 
neurologic and neurodevelopmental conditions—  
Ohio, 2011. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 
2012;60:1729–1733.
231. Frobert E, Sarret C, Billaud G, et al. Pediatric 
neurological complications associated with the a(H1N1)
pdm09 influenza infection. J Clin Vir . 2011;52:  
307–313.
232. Goodpasture HC, Poland JD, Francy DB, et al. Colorado 
tick fever: clinical, epidemiologic, and laboratory aspects 
of 228 cases in Colorado in 1973-1974. Ann Intern Med . 
1978;88:303–310.
233. Spruance SL, Bailey A. Colorado tick fever: a review of 
115 laboratory confirmed cases. Arch Intern Med . 
1973;131:288–293.
234. Mohd JF , Attoui H, Gallian P , et al. Recombinant 
VP7-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for 
detection of immunoglobulin G antibodies to Colorado 
tick fever virus. J Clin Microbiol . 2003;41:2102–2105.
235. Rhoades RE, Tabor-Godwin JM, Tsueng G, et al. 
Enterovirus infections of the central nervous system. 
Virology . 2011;411:288–305.
236. Fowlkes AL, Honarmand S, Glaser C, et al. Enterovirus-
associated encephalitis in the California encephalitis 
project, 1998-2005. J Infect Dis . 2008;198:1685–1691.
237. Messacar K, et al. Acute flaccid myelitis: a clinical review 
of US cases 2012-2015. Ann Neurol . 2016;80:326–338.
238. Ooi MH, Wong SC, Lewthwaite P , et al. Clinical features, 
diagnosis, and management of enterovirus 71. Lancet 
Neurol . 2010;9:1097–1105.
239. Ooi MH, Wong SC, Podin Y , et al. Human enterovirus 71 
disease in Sarawak, Malaysia: a prospective clinical, 
virological, and molecular epidemiological study. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2007;44:646–656.
240. Pevear DC, Hayden FG, Demenczuk TM, et al. 
Relationship of pleconaril susceptibility and clinical 
outcomes in treatment of common colds caused by 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1247.e4
Part II  Major Clinical Syndromesrhinoviruses. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2005;49:4492–4499.
241. Blanton JD, Palmer D, Christian KA, et al. Rabies 
surveillance in the United States during 2007. J Am Vet 
Med Assoc . 2008;233:884–897.
242. Noah DL, Drenzek CL, Smith JS, et al. Epidemiology of 
human rabies in the United States, 1980 to 1996. Ann 
Intern Med . 1998;128:922–930.
243. Susilawathi NM, Darwinata AE, Dwija I, et al. 
Epidemiological and clinical features of human rabies 
cases in Bali 2008-2010. BMC Inf Dis . 2012;12:  
81–89.
244. Manning SE, Rupprecht CE, Fishbein D, et al. Human 
rabies prevention—United States, 2008: recommendations 
of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. 
MMWR Recomm Rep . 2008;57(RR–3):1–28.
245. Srinivasan A, Burton EC, Kuehnert MJ, et al. 
Transmission of rabies virus from an organ donor to four 
transplant recipients. N Engl J Med . 2005;352:  
1103–1111.
246. Schneider-Schaulies J, Meulen V , Schneider-Schaulies S. 
Measles infection of the central nervous system. J 
Neurovirol . 2003;9:247–252.
247. Smith JS, Fishbein DB, Rupprecht CE, et al. Unexplained 
rabies in three immigrants in the United States: a 
virologic investigation. N Engl J Med . 1991;324:  
205–211.
248. Coulon P , Derbin C, Kucera P , et al. Invasion of the 
peripheral nervous systems of adult mice by the CVS strain of rabies virus and its avirulent derivative avo1. J 
Virol . 1989;63:3550–3554.
249. Hemachudha T, Laothamatas J, Rupprecht CE. Human 
rabies: a disease of complex neuropathogenetic 
mechanisms and diagnostic challenges. Lancet Neurol . 
2002;1:101–109.
250. Tsiang H. Evidence for an intraaxonal transport of fixed 
and street rabies virus. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol . 
1979;38:286–299.
251. Jackson AC. Rabies. Neurol Clin . 2008;26:717–726.
252. Dacheux L, Reynes JM, Buchy P , et al. A reliable 
diagnosis of human rabies based on analysis of skin 
biopsy specimens. Clin Infect Dis . 2008;47:1410–1417.
253. Willoughby RE Jr, Tieves KS, Hoffman GM, et al. 
Survival after treatment of rabies with induction of coma. 
N Engl J Med . 2005;352:2508–2514.
254. Hemachudha T, Sunsaneewitayakul B, Desudchit T, et al. 
Failure of therapeutic coma and ketamine for therapy of 
human rabies. J Neurovirol . 2006;12:407–409.
255. Rupprecht CE, Gibbons RV . Clinical practice: prophylaxis 
against rabies. N Engl J Med . 2004;351:2626–2635.
256. Rupprecht CE, Briggs D, Brown CM, et al. Use of a 
reduced (4-dose) vaccine schedule for post-exposure 
prophylaxis to prevent human rabies: recommendation of 
the advisory committee on immunization practices. 
MMWR Recomm Rep . 2010;59(RR–2):1–9.
257. Uwanyiligira M, Landry P , Genton B, et al. Rabies 
postexposure prophylaxis in routine practice in view of 
the new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and World Health Organization recommendations. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2012;55:201–205.
258. Measles mortality reduction—West Africa, 1996-2002. 
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 2004;53:  
28–30.
259. Ota MO, Moss WJ, Griffin DE. Emerging diseases: 
measles. J Neurovirol . 2005;11:447–454.
260. Buchanan R, Bonthius DJ. Measles virus and associated 
central nervous system sequelae. Semin Pediatr Neurol . 
2012;19:107–114.
261. Garg RK. Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis. Postgrad 
Med J . 2002;78:63–70.
262. Saha V , John TJ, Mukundan P , et al. High incidence of 
subacute sclerosing panencephalitis in South India. 
Epidemiol Infect . 1990;104:151–156.
263. Caruso JM, Robbins-Tien D, Brown WD, et al. Atypical 
chorioretinitis as an early presentation of subacute 
sclerosing panencephalitis. J Pediatr Ophthalmol 
Strabismus . 2000;37:119–122.
264. Green SH, Wirtschafter JD. Ophthalmoscopic findings in 
subacute sclerosing panencephalitis. Br J Ophthalmol . 
1973;57:780–787.
265. Singer C, Lang AE, Suchowersky O. Adult-onset subacute 
sclerosing panencephalitis: case reports and review of the 
literature. Mov Disord . 1997;12:342–353.
266. Gokcil Z, Odabasi Z, Demirkaya S, et al. Alpha-  
interferon and isoprinosine in adult-onset subacute 
sclerosing panencephalitis. J Neurol Sci . 1999;162:  
62–64.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.