History of Present Illness
2008 March Featured Case and IDSA 2007 Fellows Day Case Presentation Summary: A woman with fevers and skin lesions after surgery.

A woman in her fifties suffered an intraparenchymal hemorrhage of the brain, for which hemi-craniotomy and clot evacuation were performed. The four-week post-operative course was complicated by a ventilator-associated pneumonia that was treated with vancomycin and cefepime. Fevers persisted while she was receiving these antibiotics, despite resolution of the pneumonia by radiography. Cultures of blood, urine and cerebral spinal fluid were sterile. Vancomycin and cefepime were discontinued after fourteen days, and the temperatures returned to normal.

The patient remained afebrile for six days off all antibiotics, and then returned to the operating room for placement of ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt, followed by revision of the right craniotomy flap. Immediately post-operatively, fever to 38.9°C developed and the blood pressure transiently dropped to 80s/40s mm Hg. Specimens of blood and urine were cultured, and vancomycin and cefepime administered. Over the next twelve hours, the temperature rose to 40.6°C (105.1°F) and a rash developed.

Past Medical History
There was a past medical history of hypercholesterolemia.
Medications
Other medications included levetiracetam, lansoprazole, lisinopril and metoprolol.
Allergies
She was allergic to penicillin, but the reaction to this medication was unknown.
Physical Examination
The patient was sedated and mechanically ventilated with minimal oxygen requirements. The maximum temperature was 40.1°C (104.2°F), pulse 108 beats per minute and blood pressure 112/52 mm Hg. A tracheostomy tube, gastric tube and subclavian triple lumen catheter were in place. There was a non-blanching erythematous eruption with tense bullae on the skin (Figures 1 through 3). Nikolsky sign was negative.

Figure 1: Physical findings (erythematous foot with swelling)

Figure 2: Physical findings (erythematous hand with ndoules and welling 
Figure 3: Physical findings. Close up of hand. 
Studies
The white blood cell count was 11,900 cells/microliter with a normal differential and no eosinophils. The creatinine was 0.7 milligrams/deciliter and urinalysis revealed trace protein, but was otherwise normal. A gram stain of the culture sent from the operative site during the craniotomy revision revealed gram-positive cocci.
Clinical Course Prior to Diagnosis
A punch biopsy of the skin was performed. Hematoxylin and eosin staining of the sample showed a sub-epidermal blister with numerous neutrophils (Figure 4).

Figure 4: H and E stain of biopsy 

