1068
Endocarditis and  
Intravascular Infections
Thomas L. Holland, Arnold S. Bayer, and Vance G. Fowler, Jr.80 
Definition
• Infective endocarditis  (IE) is an infection of the 
endocardial surface of the heart.
Epidemiology
• It is traditionally associated with heart v alves 
damaged by rheumatic heart disease.
• In the current era,  health care contact and 
injection drug use are the primary risk factors.
Microbiology
• Staphylococcus aureus  is now the leading 
cause of IE in most of the industrialized world.
• Historically , viridans-group streptococci were 
the most common cause of endocarditis.
• Bartonella  spp. are the most common cause of 
culture-negative IE in the United States. Other 
common causes of culture-negative IE are summarized in Table 80.6.
Diagnosis
• Results of blood cultures remain the 
cornerstone of diagnosis of endocarditis.
• Clinical ev aluation alone is insufficient to 
exclude the possibility of endocarditis.• Echocardiography , particularly transesophageal 
echocardiography, has greatly improved the clinician’s ability to identify endocarditis.
•
 Diagnostic schema,  such as the modified Duke 
criteria, are useful in establishing the presence of endocarditis.
Therapy
• Cardiac surgery is required in up to half of 
patients with endocarditis and improves patient outcome.
•
 Cardiac surgery is especially important in 
patients with endocarditis who have heart failure, paravalvular abscess, recurrent embolic events, or ongoing sepsis or who are infected with highly resistant or fungal pathogens.
•
 Although the timing of cardiac surgery , 
particularly after embolic events involving the central nervous system, remains controversial, emerging evidence supports the benefit of early valve replacement surgery for endocarditis.
•
 Antibiotic therapy involves extended courses 
of antibiotics. Treatment is highly pathogen specific and is summarized in Table 80.7. Guidelines for treatment of IE were updated in 2015.
1
• Addition of adjunctive low-dose , short-course 
gentamicin to standard antibiotic treatment of 
S. aureus  native valve IE has been shown to 
confer high risk for nephrotoxicity without significant improvement in clinical outcomes and is not encouraged.
•
 Several observ ational studies support the use 
of high-dose ceftriaxone in combination with ampicillin for the treatment of ampicillin-susceptible, aminoglycoside-resistant enterococcal endocarditis or for patients with underlying renal disease.
Prevention
• Prevention of endocarditis involves reduction 
of bloodstream infections, especially in the health care setting.
•
 T he role of antibiotic prophylaxis for the 
prevention of endocarditis is controversial. Guidelines were published by the American Heart Association in 2015.SHORT VIEW SUMMARY
INFECTIVE ENDOCARDITIS
The term infective endocarditis  (IE) denotes infection of the endocardial 
surface of the heart and implies the physical presence of microorganisms 
in the lesion. Although the heart valves are affected most commonly, the disease also may occur within septal defects or on the mural endocardium. Infections of arteriovenous shunts and of arterioarterial 
shunts (patent ductus arteriosus) and infections related to coarctation 
of the aorta are included in the following discussion because the clinical manifestations are similar. The term infective endocarditis,  first used by 
Thayer and later popularized by Lerner and Weinstein,
2 is preferable 
to the former term bacterial endocarditis,  because nonbacterial pathogens, 
including fungi and perhaps even viruses, may be responsible for the syndrome.
In the past, IE was classified as acute  or subacute.  This distinction 
was based on the usual progression of the untreated disease and is mainly of historical interest. The acute form follows a fulminant course, usually with high fever, systemic toxicity, and leukocytosis; death occurs in several days to less than 6 weeks. It classically is associated with infection caused by Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae,  or Neisseria gonorrhoeae.  The subacute form 
(death occurring in 6 weeks to 3 months) and the chronic  form (death 
occurring later than 3 months) usually are considered together. They commonly occur in the setting of prior valvular disease and are characterized by a slow, indolent course with low-grade fever, night sweats, weight loss, and vague systemic complaints. These two forms of IE classically are caused by the viridans streptococci.
Although useful conceptually, this classification ignores the nonbacte -
rial forms of IE and the frequent overlap in manifestations of infection 
by specific organisms, such as the enterococci. A classification based 
on the etiologic agent responsible is preferable because it has implications for the course usually followed, the likelihood of preexisting heart disease, and the appropriate antimicrobial agents to use.
Although IE is relatively uncommon, it has received considerable 
attention from clinicians and scientists for the past century. The clinical manifestations of IE are so varied that they may be encountered in any of the medical subspecialties. Successful management depends on the close cooperation of medical and surgical disciplines. Endocarditis 
services and therapeutic protocols have been created at several tertiary 
care centers in the United States and Europe. IE has attracted considerable investigative interest. Although the factors that influence its development now are identified more clearly, many questions remain about the unique aspects of this infection, in particular:
1. W hy do organisms lodge specifically on the cardiac valves rather 
than elsewhere in the vascular tree?
2. W hat enables the microorganisms to survive on the valve surface 
after colonization?G Car diovascular Infections
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections 
1068.e1
Revised November, 2019
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1069Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections from 28% to 45% of cases for the mitral valve alone, 5% to 36% for the 
aortic valve alone, and 0% to 35% for the aortic and mitral valves combined. The tricuspid valve rarely is involved (0%–6% of cases), and the pulmonary valve even less often ( <1%).
7,18 Involvement of the aortic 
valve alone is increasing in frequency and correlates with the increase in acute cases; the incidence was 5% in 1938 and increased to 38%  
by 2000.
7
Predisposing Factors
Almost any type of structural heart disease may predispose to IE, especially if the defect results in turbulence of blood flow. Rheumatic heart disease was the underlying lesion in 37% to 76% of infections in the past, and the mitral valve is involved in more than 85% of cases related to rheumatic heart disease.
13 If the mitral valve alone is involved, 
women outnumber men by 2 to 1. The aortic valve is affected in approximately 50% of these cases; if it alone is involved, men outnumber women by 4 to 1. Right-sided endocarditis is rare (except in injection drug users and patients with indwelling transvenous pacemakers) and 
accounts for fewer than 10% of all cases occurring in patients with 
rheumatic heart disease. In developed countries, the proportion of cases related to rheumatic heart disease has continued to decline (to 5% or less in the past 2 decades),
7 whereas in developing countries rheumatic 
heart disease19,20 remains the most common predisposing cardiac 
condition.21
Congenital heart disease (especially patent ductus arteriosus, ven -
tricular septal defect, coarctation of the aorta, bicuspid aortic valve, tetralogy of Fallot, and, rarely, pulmonic stenosis) is responsible in 6% to 24% of endocarditis cases.
7 IE is uncommon in the secundum atrial 
septal defects, probably because this lesion results in a low-pressure shunt with little turbulence. The congenitally bicuspid aortic valve is an important condition in elderly patients (especially men).
22 In one 
prospective multicenter analysis, it was present in 16% of 310 cases of definite native valve endocarditis. Half of the patients with bicuspid aortic valve had perivalvular abscess, and 72% required valve surgery.
23 
Surgical closure of a ventricular septal defect lowers the risk for IE.24
The degenerative cardiac lesions (e.g., calcified mitral annulus, calcific 
nodular lesions secondary to arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease, post–myocardial infarction thrombus) assume greatest importance in the 30% to 40% of IE patients without underlying valvular disease. The actual contribution made by these lesions is unknown, but they occur 
with an increased incidence in the elderly. In one series, degenerative 
lesions were present in 50% of patients older than 60 years with native valve IE.
25 The contribution of these degenerative cardiac lesions to the 
development of IE was apparent in an analysis of 148 patients receiving treatment in London after 1970.
26,27 The underlying structural cardiac 
defects were as follows: rheumatic heart disease in 39 patients, congenital defects in 13, and normal or degenerate valves in 65. Although a calcified mitral annulus is fairly common in elderly women, this lesion rarely is complicated by IE (only 3 of 80 patients in one report).
28 When patients 
with acute IE are considered separately, more than 50% have no rec -
ognized underlying cardiac disease.29
Many other conditions, such as bicuspid aortic valve,22 luetic heart 
disease, arterioarterial fistulas, hemodialysis shunts or fistulas, intracardiac pacemaker wires, and intracardiac prostheses, may predispose to IE. Prosthetic valve endocarditis is increasing in incidence in proportion to other forms of endocarditis. For example, it was present in one-fifth 
of the 2781 adults with definite IE in ICE-PCS (see Chapter 81).
7 
Intravascular infections involving cardiac devices (e.g., permanent cardiac 
pacemakers, defibrillators) also have increased significantly since the 1990s and are discussed in Chapter 82.
30,31 IE also occurs more frequently 
among patients with extensive contact with the health care system.10,17 
As noted previously, injection drug users constitute another group with an increased risk for IE (see later discussion). In this population, there is the added problem of a rapidly rising prevalence of IE among persons with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. In addition, 
injection drug users are the group at greatest risk for recurrent and 
polymicrobial IE.
13,32 Although the contribution of invasive procedures 
(e.g., sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy) has been debated, native valve IE seems to be more common among patients with active inflammatory bowel disease (6 of 213 patients in one report
33).3. W hat are the primary host defenses against induction and 
progression of the infection?
4. W hy do only a relatively few strains of bacteria produce most 
cases of IE whereas many others produce only bacteremia?
5. W hat factors are responsible for the marked variation in the 
manifestations of IE?
6. W hy is the infection so difficult to eradicate with antibiotics even 
though the infecting organisms often are exquisitely sensitive to the drugs in vitro?
These questions are discussed in detail in the following sections.
Epidemiology
The incidence of IE is difficult to determine, because the criteria for diagnosis and the methods of reporting vary with different series.
3,4 
An analysis based on strict case definitions often reveals that only a small proportion (approximately 20%) of clinically diagnosed cases are categorized as definite. In a systematic review of IE epidemiology studies from 1980 to 2008, crude incidence of IE ranged between 1.5 
and 11.6 cases per 100,000 people.
5 Of note, high-quality data were 
available only from 10 countries, most of which are high-income areas; 
the epidemiology of IE in lower-income regions is poorly characterized. With the use of the Nationwide Inpatient Sample, which approximates about a 20% sample of all US acute-care hospitals, several studies have 
reported significant increases in hospitalizations for IE, with most of 
this increase being attributable to S. aureus.
6 In the International Col -
laboration on Endocarditis–Prospective Cohort Study (ICE-PCS), the proportion of acute cases had increased from approximately 20% in the preantibiotic era to more than 75% in most of the industrialized world.
7
Age
The mean age of patients with IE has increased gradually in the antibiotic era. In 1926, the median age was younger than 30 years
8; by 1943, it 
was 39 years, and currently more than half of patients are older than 50 years.
7,9,10 In ICE-PCS, among more than 2700 patients from 58 
centers in 25 countries with definite IE according to the modified Duke criteria, the median age was 57.9 years.
7 The disease is uncommon in 
children, in whom it is associated primarily with (1) underlying structural congenital heart disease, particularly septal defects or complex lesions involving septal defects; (2) surgical repair of these defects; or (3) nosocomial catheter-related bacteremia, especially in infants.
11,12
The mean age for men is 6 to 7 years older than that for women, 
and men are affected more commonly (54%–69% of cases); the mean 
male-to-female ratio is 1.7  :  1, w ith a range of 1  :  1 t o 3  :  1 in 18 l arge 
series.13 Among patients younger than 35 years, more cases occur in 
women. Many factors may be related to this shift in age distribution. First, there has been a change in the nature of the underlying heart disease owing to a decline in the incidence of acute rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease, countered by the increasing importance 
of degenerative heart disease in elderly patients. Second, the age of the 
population has been increasing steadily, and people with rheumatic or congenital heart disease are surviving longer. In addition, such patients 
increasingly are being subjected to prosthetic valve surgery, an important 
etiologic factor in the pathogenesis of IE.
Health Care–Associated Infective Endocarditis
A relatively new form of the disease, health care–associated IE, has emerged secondary to the introduction of new therapeutic modalities (e.g., intravenous catheters, hyperalimentation lines, pacemakers, dialysis shunts).
3,7,10,14–16,17 In a prospective, multinational cohort study of more 
than 1600 patients with native valve endocarditis and no injection drug use, more than one-third of patients had health care–associated endo -
carditis, which in many cases was community acquired.
17 The emerging 
importance of health care–associated IE in industrialized nations has also influenced the microbiology of IE, with an increasing prevalence of S. aureus  and decreasing prevalence of viridans streptococci in much 
of the industrialized world.
Pattern of Valvular Involvement
The heart valve involved by the infection varies considerably with the proportion of acute cases reported in each series. The distribution ranges 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1070Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
discarded, because cardiac valves are poorly vascularized.43,47,48 It now 
is clear that the initial colonization occurs on the damaged endothelial 
surface of the valve. In experimental animals, it is almost impossible to produce IE with intravenous injections of bacteria unless the valvular surface is first perturbed. If a polyethylene catheter is passed across the 
aortic valve of a rat or rabbit, IE is produced with intravenously injected 
bacteria or fungi.
49,50 Microscopic examination of this early lesion shows 
the organisms intimately adherent to fibrin-platelet deposits overlying interstitial edema and mild cellular distortion that have formed in areas of valvular trauma.
51 Scanning electron micrographs of the damaged 
valvular surface confirm the adhesion of microorganisms to these areas of fibrin-platelet deposition early in the disease course.
52 The organisms 
are covered rapidly by fibrin.53
Opossums and pigs are the only animals known to develop spontane -
ous IE readily (i.e., without experimentally induced valvular altera-tion).
44,54 The stress of captivity is apparently sufficient in these animals 
to produce subtle valvular changes that lead to spontaneous endocarditis and a markedly increased susceptibility to the disease after intravenous injection of bacteria. In other animals and probably in humans, alteration of the valve surface is a prerequisite for bacterial colonization. Angrist 
and Oka
47 first recognized the importance of these deposits as the crucial 
factor in allowing bacterial colonization of valve surfaces and suggested 
the term NBTE. Many forms of exogenous stress produce these lesions experimentally, including infection, hypersensitivity states, cold exposure, simulated high altitude, high cardiac output states, cardiac lymphatic 
obstruction, and hormonal manipulations.
44 These procedures all increase 
the susceptibility of the animals to IE.
NBTE has been found in patients with malignancy (particularly 
pancreatic, gastric, or lung adenocarcinoma) and other chronic wasting 
diseases, rheumatic and congenital heart disease,47 uremia, and connective 
tissue diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheu-matoid arthritis; after the placement of intracardiac catheters (e.g., Swan-Ganz); and after a self-limited acute illness. NBTE generally reflects one of two pathogenic mechanisms: hypercoagulability (especially related 
to secondary antiphospholipid syndromes) or endothelial damage. In 
a careful analysis performed in Japan, NBTE was found in 2.4% of 3404 autopsies, especially in elderly people with chronic wasting disease.
55 
Among patients at high risk for NBTE, the rate may be greater. Cardiac valvular vegetations were found in 19% of 200 nonselected ambulatory Although it is not classically recognized as a condition leading to 
bacterial endocarditis, up to 5% of patients with idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis develop IE.
34 IE is more common in the subset of 
these patients who have hemodynamically severe forms of the disease, as manifested by a higher peak systolic pressure gradient and a high prevalence of symptoms. New murmurs develop in 36% of patients with idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis complicated by IE, and 
this new physical finding correlates with a higher mortality rate.
34 Among 
seven cases examined histologically, the infection was found on the 
aortic valve in three cases, on the mitral valve in two cases, on both valves in one case, and on the subaortic endocardium in one case. This distribution probably is related to the associated mitral regurgitation 
caused by displacement of the anterior leaflet by the abnormal ventricular 
architecture and by the turbulence of the jet stream affecting the aortic valve distal to the intraventricular obstruction.
An association has also been recognized between IE and mitral 
valve prolapse. Among 896 Olmsted County residents with mitral prolapse, the 15-year cohort risk of IE was 1.1%, which was more than eightfold higher than in the general population.
35 All IE cases occurred 
in patients with concurrent mitral regurgitation.
Mitral valve prolapse should be suspected in patients who have 
midsystolic clicks with or without a late systolic murmur. The condition is common and has been recognized in 0.5% to 20% of otherwise healthy 
people, especially young women. It has become apparent that mitral 
valve prolapse is only one component of a developmental syndrome. This lesion often is associated with a distinct habitus in women,
36 with 
von Willebrand disease, or with ophthalmoplegia. Some of these characteristics may be useful in identifying patients at high risk for IE. All 25 patients in one series who developed IE on a prolapsing mitral valve had a holosystolic murmur, and none had the isolated click without 
a murmur.
37
The risk for IE seems to be increased in the subset of patients with 
mitral valve prolapse who exhibit thickened leaflets with valvular 
redundancy.25 In addition, men older than 45 years who have mitral 
valve prolapse are at increased risk for IE.38 Nevertheless, the risk for 
IE is higher in patients with mitral valve prolapse. In a careful retrospec -
tive, epidemiologic, matched case-control analysis, the calculated odds ratio (8.2; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.4–28.4) indicated a substantially higher risk for the development of IE in these patients than in controls.
39 
It seems that when IE develops in people with mitral valve prolapse, the symptoms and signs are more subtle and the mortality rate is less than in left-sided IE of other types.
40
Pathogenesis and Pathophysiology
In vitro observations and studies in experimental animals have shown that development of IE probably requires the simultaneous occurrence of several independent events, each of which may be influenced by a cadre of distinct factors. The valve surface first must be “altered” to produce a suitable site for bacterial attachment and colonization. Valve 
surface changes may be produced by various local and systemic stresses, 
including blood turbulence (from underlying structural or inflammatory 
valvular disease) and the offending organism itself. These alterations 
result in the deposition of platelets, fibronectin, fibrin, and other matrix ligands in the formation of so-called sterile vegetation—the lesions of nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis (NBTE). Bacteria then must reach this site and adhere to and invade the involved tissue to produce coloniza -
tion and persistence. Certain strains seem to have a selective advantage in adhering to platelets, fibronectin, or fibrin and produce the disease with a lower inoculum. After microbial colonization, the surface is covered rapidly with a protective sheath of fibrin and platelets to produce an environment conducive to further bacterial multiplication and 
vegetative growth. It is important to point out that, at least for left-sided 
IE, neutrophils play little role in the pathogenesis of or defense against evolution of IE. The interaction of these events is depicted in Fig. 80.1. In the following sections, these factors are considered independently (for in-depth discussions, see references 41–45).
Nonbacterial Thrombotic Endocarditis
Luschka, in 1852, first suggested that IE resulted when septic coronary emboli lodged in the vessels of the cardiac valve.
46 This hypothesis was Valvular
endotheliumMucous membranes
or other
colonized tissue
Local ecologic factors
Platelet-fibrin
deposition
Nonbacterial
thrombotic
endocarditis (NBTE)Trauma
Bacteremia
Complement
antibody
Adherence
Colonization
Mature
vegetationbacterial division
fibrin depositionplatelet aggregationextracellular proteasesprotection from neutrophils       bacteriocinsIgA proteasebacterial adherencetraumaturbulencemetabolic changes
FIG. 80.1  Proposed scheme for the pathogenesis of infective 
endocarditis. IgA, Immunoglobulin A. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1071Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections 
Another crucial factor during the transient bacteremia stage is 
susceptibility of the potential pathogen to complement-mediated 
bactericidal activity. Only “serum-resistant, ” gram-negative aerobic bacilli (e.g., Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens) 
reliably produce experimental IE in rabbits,
65,66 and this property is 
found in all isolates from human cases of IE. Although experimental IE can be induced in rats with “serum-sensitive” E. coli, the organisms 
are eliminated rapidly on catheter removal.
66
Microorganism–Nonbacterial Thrombotic 
Endocarditis Interaction
The ability of certain organisms to adhere to NBTE lesions is a crucial 
early step in the development of IE. Gould and associates67 showed that 
organisms commonly associated with IE (enterococci, viridans strep-tococci, S. aureus, S. epidermidis, P . aeruginosa) adhered more avidly 
to normal canine aortic leaflets in vitro than did organisms uncommon in IE (Klebsiella pneumoniae, E. coli).  In addition, S. aureus and the 
viridans streptococci produce IE more readily than does E. coli in the 
rabbit model of IE.
68 This observation correlates with the relative fre -
quency with which these organisms produce the disease in humans. The rarity of IE due to gram-negative aerobic bacilli also may be related to their serum sensitivity, as noted previously.
Differences in the propensity to cause IE are apparent even within 
a single species. For example, specific clones of S. aureus, including clonal complexes 30
69,70 and 22,71 have been reported to be associated 
with an increased risk for IE. In addition, only 2 of the 11 capsular serotypes of S. aureus described to date, serotypes 5 and 8, account for patients with solid tumors undergoing prospective echocardiographic screening.
56 Valvular lesions were most common among patients with 
carcinoma of the pancreas or lung or lymphoma.
NBTE is most common on the low-pressure side of the cardiac 
valves along the line of closure, precisely the site most often involved in IE. Whether this lesion is always essential for the development of  
IE in humans is unknown. Secondary hypercoagulable states (e.g., as seen in secondary antiphospholipid syndromes in SLE) may contribute to the development and propagation of the NBTE lesion.
57
Hemodynamic Factors
When associated with valvular insufficiency, IE characteristically occurs on the atrial surface of the mitral valve and the ventricular surface of the aortic valve. Rodbard
58 showed that this localization is related to a 
decrease in lateral pressure (presumably with decreased perfusion of the intima) immediately downstream from the regurgitant flow. Lesions with high degrees of turbulence (e.g., small ventricular septal defect with a jet lesion, valvular stenosis resulting from insufficient valves) 
readily create conditions that lead to bacterial colonization, whereas 
defects with a large surface area (large ventricular septal defect), low flow (ostium secundum atrial septal defect), or attenuation of turbulence (chronic congestive heart failure [CHF] with atrial fibrillation) rarely are implicated in IE. Cures of IE achieved with ligation of an arteriovenous fistula or patent ductus arteriosus without further treatment also highlight the importance of hemodynamic factors. A hyperdynamic circulation itself, such as that developing after experimentally induced arteriovenous fistulas in dogs or after creation of fistulas and shunts in hemodialysis 
patients, may lead indirectly to IE by producing NBTE.
43,44 Finally, 
implantable intracardiac prosthetic material may well contribute to a 
turbulent blood flow state, as seen in intraventricular pacemakers and implantable cardioverter-defibrillators.
The degree of mechanical stress exerted on the valve also affects the 
location of the IE.
59 In 1024 autopsy cases of IE reviewed through 1952, 
the incidence of valvular lesions was as follows: mitral, 86%; aortic, 55%; tricuspid, 19.6%; and pulmonic, 1.1%. This incidence correlates 
with the pressure resting on the closed valve: 116, 72, 24, and 5  mm 
Hg, respectively.
Transient Bacteremia
In the setting of preexistent NBTE, transient bacteremia may result in colonization of these lesions and may lead to the development of IE.
60 
Transient bacteremia occurs whenever a mucosal surface heavily colo -
nized with bacteria is traumatized, such as occurs with dental extractions and other dental procedures or with gastrointestinal, urologic, or gynecologic procedures (Table 80.1).
60,61 The degree of bacteremia is 
proportional to the trauma produced by the procedure and to the number of organisms inhabiting the surface; the organisms isolated reflect the resident microbial flora. The bacteremia usually is low grade ( ≤10 
colony-forming units [CFUs]/mL) and transient; the bloodstream usually 
is sterile in less than 15 to 30 minutes.
In two studies in which samples for blood cultures were drawn from 
patients with severe gingival disease before the dental procedure, 
spontaneous bacteremia was identified in 9% to 11% of the patients. Other studies have shown an even higher frequency of spontaneous bacteremia. Of the blood cultured from healthy people, 60% to 80% of specimens were positive when filters and anaerobic techniques were used.
62 The degree of bacteremia was low, however, with only 2 to 10 
CFUs/5  mL o f blood isolated. “Nonpathogenic” organisms, such as 
Propionibacterium  (now Cutibacterium ) acnes, Actinomyces viscosus, 
Staphylococcus epidermidis,  and other Actinomyces  or streptococcal 
species, were responsible. Frequent episodes of silent bacteremia also are suggested by the identification of circulating humoral antibodies to the resident oral flora and by the noted increase in sensitized peripheral 
T cells to the flora of dental plaque. The frequency of such silent bac -
teremias in the probable pathogenesis of IE has contributed to the 
current concept that individual dental procedures are uncommonly the cause of such infections.
63 In contrast, it is currently believed64 that 
underlying gingivodental disease results in intermittent, low-level bacteremia that can seed damaged valvular endothelial lesions in an unpredictable scenario.TABLE 80.1  Incidence of Bacter emia After  
Various Procedures
PROCEDURE OR MANIPULATION% POSITIVE 
BLOOD CULTURES
Dental
Dental extraction 18–85
Periodontal surgery 32–88
Chewing candy or paraffin 17–51
Tooth brushing 0–26
Oral irrigation device 27–50
Upper Airway
Bronchoscopy (rigid scope) 15
Tonsillectomy 28–38
Nasotracheal suctioning or intubation 16
Gastrointestinal
Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy 8–12
Sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy 0–9.5
Barium enema 11
Percutaneous needle biopsy of liver 3–13
Urologic
Urethral dilation 18–33
Urethral catheterization 8
Cystoscopy 0–17
Transurethral prostatic resection 12–46
Obstetric or Gynecologic
Normal vaginal delivery 0–11
Punch biopsy of the cervix 0
Removal or insertion of intrauterine 
(contraceptive) device0
Data from Everett ED, Hirschmann JV. Transient bacteremia and endocarditis 
prophylaxis: a review. Medicine (Baltimore). 1977;56:61.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1072Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
organisms grown in broth correlated with adherence; the amount was 
increased by incubating the organism in sucrose (which stimulates dextran production) and decreased by the addition of dextranase (which removes the dextran from the cell surface). The addition of exogenous dextran to S. sanguinis  grown in sucrose-free media increased adherence. 
Dextran production also correlated directly with the ability of these organisms to produce IE in vivo in the rabbit model.
82 The strain of S. 
sanguinis  produced IE less readily when incubated in dextranase than 
did control strains, and a strain that produced large quantities of dextran produced endocarditis more easily than did a strain that produced relatively small quantities of dextran. Dextran production also increased 
the adherence of S. mutans  to traumatized canine aortic valves in vitro,
83 
an effect that was dependent on polymers of higher molecular weight.84 
Dextran formation (or, more properly, exopolysaccharide or glycocalyx 
production) by oral streptococci may be a virulence factor for the production of IE by these organisms.
85 Continued in vivo synthesis of 
exopolysaccharide during experimental IE correlated with vegetation size and resistance to antimicrobial therapy.
86,87 Measurement of cell-
adherent glycocalyx with a quantitative spectrophotometric tryptophan assay among viridans streptococci isolated from blood cultures has potential value as an independent predictor of the likelihood of IE.
88 
Non–dextran-producing streptococci may produce IE in humans and adhere to artificial fibrin-platelet surfaces in vitro,
89 suggesting that 
other microbial surface characteristics are instrumental for this early event. Whatever the role of the extracellular glycocalyx in microbial adhesion, its presence may retard antimicrobial therapy for streptococcal endocarditis (see later discussion).
86,87,90
FimA, a surface adhesin expressed by viridans streptococci, has 
been shown to mediate the attachment of such organisms to platelet-fibrin matrices in vitro and to experimental NBTE lesions in the animal model of IE.
91 Homologues of the fimA  gene are widely distributed among 
clinical strains of viridans streptococci and enterococci, suggesting its importance in IE.
92 Several lines of experimental evidence have confirmed 
further the key role of FimA in the pathogenesis of IE. Inactivation of the fimA  gene has yielded viridans streptococcal mutants exhibiting a 
significant decrease in virulence in experimental IE compared with the parental strain having intact FimA expression.
91 In addition, animals 
either passively immunized with anti-FimA antibody or actively immunized with a FimA vaccine were significantly less susceptible to experimental IE than nonimmunized controls.
92
Viridans-Group Streptococcal Interactions  
With Platelets
The viridans-group streptococci interact with human platelets through several mechanisms that may contribute to the pathogenesis of IE. A locus of Streptococcus gordonii , important for binding to human platelets,
93 
encodes a large, serine-rich repeat (SRR) cell wall–anchored glycoprotein adhesin (GspB), which comprises four proteins mediating the glyco -
sylation of the adhesion,
94–96 and a specialized, multicomponent 
transporter (the accessory Sec system) that mediates the export of the adhesin to the bacterial surface. GspB binds to platelets via its interaction 
with sialoglycans on the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib.
97,98 Subsequent 
studies have shown that the GspB-accessory Sec locus is highly conserved 
in other species of oral streptococci implicated as causes of IE, including S. sanguinis , Streptococcus mitis , and Streptococcus oralis.
99 Most homo -
logues of GspB in these organisms also appear to be sialoglycan-binding adhesins, but they can differ in the type and range of sialylated glycan bound.
99,100 Loss of GspB expression was linked with decreased virulence 
in experimental IE.101 Similar results have been reported for Hsa, a 
homologue of GspB expressed by another strain of S. gordonii,102,103 
indicating that at least some of the SRR adhesins are conserved virulence factors in IE. Of note, several other SRR adhesins of gram-positive pathogens have been linked to virulence in the setting of IE and other infections.
104–107
A second mechanism for the binding of viridans-group streptococci 
to platelets is through the surface expression of bacteriophage-encoded proteins. Studies with S. mitis/oralis  strain SF100 found that three proteins 
of a lysogenic phage (SM1) enhanced platelet binding in vitro and contributed to virulence for IE.
108,109 PblA is a “tape measure protein” 
(important for phage morphogenesis), whereas PblB is a tail fiber protein. approximately 75% of clinical isolates, whereas highly mucoid strains 
(e.g., serotypes 1 and 2) are rarely recovered. Nevertheless, mutant strains 
devoid of microencapsulation had significantly lower median infective 
dose (ID 50) values in a rat (catheter-induced NBTE) IE model,72 compared 
with wild-type parent strains. Microcapsule expression may attenuate S. aureus  IE production by blocking bacterial cell surface adhesins, but 
this hypothesis requires confirmation. In addition, an increasing number of reports suggest that other specific pathogen characteristics in S. aureus  
are associated with the severity of infection caused by these strains in humans.
73–77
Other studies using an elegant experimental model of IE after dental 
extraction in rats with sucrose-induced periodontitis, which closely resembles the presumed pathogenetic sequence in humans, also have suggested an important role for bacterial adhesion to NBTE in the early events. Although viridans streptococci were isolated much more 
commonly than group G streptococci in blood cultures obtained 1 
minute after extraction, the latter strains caused 83% of the IE episodes in this rat model.
78,79 This propensity to cause IE was associated with an 
increased adhesion of group G streptococci to fibrin-platelet matrices  
in vitro.79
The adherence of oral streptococci to NBTE may depend on the 
production of a complex extracellular polysaccharide, dextran. This polymer plays an essential role in the pathogenesis of dental caries by Streptococcus mutans.
80 Dextran allows the organism to adhere tightly 
to the surface of dental enamel. The enhanced ability to adhere to inert surfaces also may be important in IE. In an analysis of 719 cases of streptococcal infections in the United Kingdom, 317 cases of IE were found.
81 The most common etiologic agents were Streptococcus sanguinis  
(16.4% of the cases), previously identified in Streptococcus  subacute 
bacterial endocarditis, and S. mutans (14.2%). Ratios of endocarditis to nonendocarditis bacteremia caused by particular organisms have been derived ( Table 80.2 ), allowing prediction of the relative propensity 
for a particular organism to cause IE. The ratios range from 14.2  :  1 for 
S. mutans  to a reversed ratio of 1  :  32 f or S. pyogenes.  Only the first four 
organisms listed in Table 80.2 (all with ratios >3 : 1) produce extracellular 
dextran. This finding suggests that dextran production may be another virulence factor in the pathogenesis of IE.
The role of dextran in the adherence of oral streptococci to NBTE 
also has been studied in vitro with the use of artificial fibrin-platelet matrices (simulating NBTE). The amount of dextran produced by 
TABLE 80.2  Ratio of Infective Endocar ditis Cases 
to Nonendocarditis Bacteremia Cases for Various Streptococci and Enterococci
ORGANISMENDOCARDITIS:NONENDOCARDITIS 
RATIO
Streptococcus mutans 14.2 : 1
Streptococcus bovis I 5.9 : 1
Dextran-positive 
Streptococcus mitior3.3 : 1
Streptococcus sanguinis 3 : 1
S. mitior 1.8 : 1
Unclassified viridans 
streptococci1.4 : 1
Enterococcus faecalis 1 : 1.2
Miscellaneous streptococci 1 : 1.3
S. bovis II 1 : 1.7
Streptococcus anginosus 1 : 2.6
Group G streptococci 1 : 2.9
Group B streptococci 1 : 7.4
Group A streptococci 1 : 32
Modified from Parker MT, Ball LC. Streptococci and aerococci associated with 
systemic infection in man. J Med Microbiol . 1976;9:275.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1073Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections Recently, the expression, structure, and binding activity of the two 
major S. aureus fibronectin-binding proteins (FnBPA, FnBPB) were 
determined in clinical isolates from patients with persistent bacteremia 
(frequently IE) or resolving bacteremia.134 The persistent bacteremia 
isolates formed significantly stronger bonds with immobilized fibronectin as determined by dynamic binding measurements performed with atomic force microscopy. Several notable differences were also observed when the results were grouped by clonal complex 5 (CC5) strains versus CC45 
strains. Fibronectin-binding receptors on CC5 formed stronger bonds 
with immobilized fibronectin. The fnbA  gene was expressed at higher 
levels in CC45, whereas fnbB  was found in only CC5 isolates. Sequencing 
of fnbA  revealed discrete differences within high-affinity, fibronectin-
binding repeats (FnBRs) of FnBPA that included (1) 5-amino-acid polymorphisms in FnBR-9, FnBR-10, and FnBR-11 involving charged or polar side chains; (2) an extra, 38-amino-acid repeat inserted between FnBR-9 and FnBR-10 exclusively seen in CC45 isolates; and (3) CC5 isolates that had the SVDFEED epitope in FnBR-11 (a sequence shown 
to be essential for fibronectin binding), whereas this sequence was 
replaced in all CC45 isolates with GIDFVED (a motif known to favor host cell invasion at the cost of reduced fibronectin binding). These complementary sequence and binding data suggest that differences in fnbA  and fnbB,  particularly polymorphisms and duplications in FnBPA, 
give S. aureus  two distinct advantages in human endovascular infections: 
(1) FnBPs similar to that of CC5 enhance ligand binding and foster initiation of disease, and (2) CC45-like FnBPs promote cell invasion, a key attribute in persistent endovascular infections.
Effect of Antibiotics on Development of 
Infective Endocarditis
The importance of adherence characteristics in the development of IE 
also has been examined through the use of preincubation of organisms with antibiotics. Many classes of drugs, after incubation even at subinhibi -
tory concentrations, decrease the adhesion of streptococcal species to fibrin-platelet matrices and damaged canine valves in vitro.
135 Several 
elegant studies in animal models verified the significance of this in vitro observation: preincubation of the organism in subinhibitory antibiotic concentrations prevented the development of IE in vivo.
136,137 This finding 
has direct relevance to the chemoprophylactic prevention of IE (see Chapter 83). In one study, subinhibitory concentrations of penicillin were found to result in a loss of streptococcal lipoteichoic acid, with reduced adhesion to NBTE-involved tissue and an impaired ability to 
produce IE in vivo.
138 Antibiotics may prevent IE by at least two 
mechanisms: bacterial killing and inhibition of adhesion to NBTE-
involved tissue.139
Platelets and the Pathogenesis of  
Infective Endocarditis
Because platelets and fibrin are the major constituents of NBTE, the role of the platelet in the pathogenesis of IE also has been studied. Some strains of bacteria have been found to be potent stimulators of platelet aggregation and the release reaction.
140 In general, IE-producing strains 
of staphylococci and streptococci more actively aggregate platelets than do other bacteria that less frequently produce IE. Bacteria-platelet aggregates have been found in the peripheral blood of patients with 
bacteremia. The importance of these aggregates in the formation of the 
vegetation (or, conversely, the effect of the aggregation on the rate of removal of organisms from the circulation) is unknown. In one study, even small numbers of platelets greatly increased the adherence of oral streptococci to fibrin in vitro.
81 Other studies141 showed that S. sanguinis,  
an important cause of IE, aggregates platelets and adheres to these blood components by means of protease-sensitive components, not dextrans. A platelet receptor for ligands on certain strains of S. sanguinis  
was suggested. However, this platelet aggregation by viridans streptococci 
requires direct platelet binding and plasma components.
142 Other 
experiments implicated immunoglobulin G (IgG) in this specific 
streptococcal bacteria-platelet interaction and suggested that platelet activation is mediated through the platelet surface Fc receptor, with a molecular weight of 40,000 daltons.
143
After colonization of the valve occurs and a critical mass of adherent 
bacteria develops, the vegetation enlarges by further platelet-fibrin Both proteins are linked to the bacterial surface through their interactions with choline groups within the cell wall. In addition, the phage lysin 
protein becomes similarly associated with the cell wall, and mediates 
platelet binding through its interaction with fibrinogen.
110,111 One puzzling 
issue was how these bifunctional phage proteins exit the bacterium and adhere to its surface. It appears that there is some constitutive, low-level expression of the phage lytic cycle, which results in the expression of phage holin and lysin.
112 The net effect is to render the bacteria more 
permeable, so that PblA, PblB, and lysin leak from the bacteria and then bind back to the surface, where they can serve as adhesins. This is a remarkable system, because it is perhaps the first example of a phage-encoded bacterial surface structure and adhesin, and because it 
suggests a coadaptation or coevolution of the bacterium and the phage, 
wherein the bacterium is essential for phage replication and the phage gives the bacterium a selective advantage by providing it with a critical adhesin to colonize cognate ligands on platelets.
Adhesion to Nonbacterial Thrombotic Endocarditis 
by Other Organisms
A similar important role of adhesion to NBTE in the pathogenesis of 
IE has been shown for yeasts. Candida albicans  adheres to NBTE in 
vitro and produces IE in rabbits more readily than does Candida krusei,  
a nonadherent yeast rarely implicated in IE in humans.113 Although 
microbial adhesion is a crucial early event in the pathogenesis of IE, the precise intracardiac loci are unknown and may differ among organ -
isms. Most organisms probably adhere initially to a constituent of NBTE; some evidence implicates fibronectin as the host receptor within NBTE.
114 
More recent studies115,116 have supported this concept. Low–fibronectin-
binding mutants of S. aureus and S. sanguinis  had decreased ability to 
produce IE in rats, compared with high–fibronectin-binding parent strains. Other normal constituents of damaged endothelium or NBTE (e.g., fibrinogen, laminin, type IV collagen
117) also may serve to bind 
circulating bacteria. Abiotrophia defectiva,  a major species isolated in 
cases of IE caused by Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp.118 (previously 
referred to as nutritionally variant streptococci, and discussed later), bound the extracellular matrix of fibroblasts and endothelial cells in a saturable-specific manner, whereas Granulicatella adiacens  and other 
Granulicatella  strains did not bind.
119 A study also documented binding 
of S. mutans, S. mitis, S. sanguinis, and Enterococcus faecalis  to this 
extracellular matrix. Laminin-binding proteins (e.g., a 145-kDa protein found in S. gordonii) were identified on the cell walls of organisms 
recovered from patients with IE,
120 and the level of protein expression 
seemed to be regulated by the presence of extracellular matrix proteins.
Pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus 
Infective Endocarditis
Other organisms may bind directly to, or become ingested by, endothelial 
cells as the initial event.121–124 This sequence appears to be important 
in the initiation of IE by S. aureus on “normal” cardiac valves or on native endothelial surfaces adjacent to damaged endothelial sites. Many 
studies in experimental IE using S. aureus as the study organism have 
shed additional light on the importance of microbial binding to specific 
matrix proteins found within the NBTE lesion on the development of IE. It seems that the key adhesin possessed by the organism for induction of IE is one or more of its several fibrinogen-binding proteins (e.g., clumping factor, coagulase
125,126). Adhesins for other matrix molecules 
(e.g., fibronectin, collagen, thrombospondin127–129) are not involved 
pivotally in initial attachment of the organism to damaged endothelium but are crucial in persistence of the microbe at this site. Additional virulence factors produced by this organism ( α-toxin
130) have been 
identified in the experimental IE model as important for persistence and proliferation of the organism within maturing vegetations in the next stage of infection, after valvular colonization. The fibronectin-binding adhesins of S. aureus seem to be crucial in the ability of the organism 
to invade cardiac endothelium and induce endothelial apoptosis,
131–133 
although the specific microbial surface–host receptor ligand relationship remains incompletely defined for all the major IE pathogens. This is an active area of investigation, because inhibition of these events may provide novel prophylactic strategies.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1074Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
resistance phenotype in vitro were able to proliferate within the vegetation 
and hematogenously seeded extracardiac foci (kidneys, spleen) to a significantly greater extent than their isogenic counterparts, which were PMP susceptible in vitro.
163,164
Several clinical studies also emphasized the important association 
between PMP resistance and the pathogenesis of intravascular infections. Bloodstream isolates of viridans streptococci and S. aureus  from patients 
with IE tended to be substantially more resistant to PMPs in vitro.
162 
S. aureus bloodstream isolates arising from an intravascular source (catheter or IE) were significantly more resistant than bloodstream isolates arising from a deep tissue source.
165 Furthermore, PMP-resistant 
S. aureus bloodstream isolates from patients with IE were significantly more likely to have arisen from an intravascular catheter source.
166 In 
addition, data have shown fusion of PMP-rich α-granules with platelet 
engulfment vacuoles noted earlier, implicating the intrinsic PMP-resistance phenotypes of engulfed staphylococci in their ultimate intraplatelet survival outcomes.
154 Should the engulfed organism be 
intrinsically PMP-resistant, the platelet could serve as a “Trojan horse” vehicle to disseminate the organism. In contrast, if the phagocytosed staphylococci were PMP susceptible, this mechanism could eliminate the organism from the circulation.
154 Lastly, when methicillin-resistant 
S. aureus (MRSA) isolates derived from patients with “persistent bac -
teremia” ( >7 days of positive blood cultures despite in vitro susceptibility 
to the antibiotic being administered [usually vancomycin]) are examined, such strains tend to be more PMP resistant than MRSA from patients 
with rapidly resolving bacteremia.
167,168 Not surprisingly, such “persistent 
bacteremia” patient populations are enriched for underlying IE.169
Interactions Between Bacteria and the 
Growing Vegetation
In IE, the bacterial colonies are found beneath the surface of the vegeta -
tion (at variable depth, depending on the intracardiac location170) and 
infiltration by phagocytic cells is minimal; the vegetation creates an 
environment of impaired host resistance. These conditions allow for relatively unbridled bacterial growth, resulting in extremely high colony counts of 10
9 to 1011 bacteria per 1  g o f tissue. Bacteria deep within the 
fibrin matrix have been shown by autoradiography to reach a state of reduced metabolic activity.
171 Studies by Y ersin172 and Meddens173 and 
their colleagues suggested that impairment of host defenses (e.g., neutropenia, corticosteroids) potentiates progression of the disease when the tricuspid but not the aortic valve is involved but is largely dependent on the intracardiac location of the vegetation.
174
The role of granulocytes within the vegetation is unknown. When 
vegetation formation is retarded with anticoagulants in experimental animals with IE, the organisms seem to divide on the surface, total bacterial titers are lower, and the clinical disease is more explosive.
175,176 
In addition, it has been suggested that phagocytosis of microorganisms by monocytes on or within the vegetation generates tissue thromboplastin formation; thromboplastin then acts as a stimulant to fibrin deposition and growth of the vegetation.
177 However, the best evidence suggests 
that coagulation activation initiated by tissue factor,178 with subsequent 
local thrombus formation, is responsible for the initiation of vegetation growth and persistence on the cardiac valve. It seems that some organisms (e.g., S. aureus ) induce tissue factor production by endothelium without 
the necessity for host cytokines.
179
Many important studies have elucidated the interactions among the 
invading microbe, the endothelium, and the monocyte in the pathogenesis of IE. After internalization by endothelial cells in vitro, microbes such as S. aureus evoke a potent proinflammatory chemokine response, 
including, for example, increased expression of interleukin (IL)-6 or 
IL-8 or of monocyte chemotactic peptide.
180,181 This event also is associated 
with increased expression on the endothelial cell surface of several key 
adhesion molecules, especially intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1).
124,180,181 
Among other cells, monocytes are drawn into this endothelial cell microenvironment; via their appropriate counterreceptors, monocytes can bind avidly to such microbe-activated endothelial cells.
181 Extracellular 
bacteria circulating in the vascular system then bind directly to the monocyte surface, inducing the release of tissue thromboplastin (tissue factor).
182,183 This latter molecule participates in the catalytic conversion deposition and continued bacterial proliferation. There is a complex interplay among factors responsible for bacteria-platelet adhesion and aggregation. The ability of S. sanguinis  to induce platelet aggregation 
in vitro is conferred by two bacterial cell surface antigens: (1) class I antigen, which promotes adhesion of S. sanguinis  to platelets (adh
+), 
and (2) coexpression of class II antigen, which promotes platelet adhesion or platelet aggregation (agg
+). At least nine adh/agg phenotypes have 
been identified among naturally occurring variants, reflecting a range of platelet interactivity. Intravenous inoculation of agg
+ S. sanguinis  
strains into rabbits with catheter-induced aortic valve trauma led to larger vegetations, a more severe clinical course, more gross lesions in major organs, and greater mortality than inoculation with an agg
− strain 
or with the agg+ strains pretreated with Fab fragments specific for the 
platelet interactivity phenotype.144 Platelet aggregation induced by S. 
sanguinis  in vivo seems to be an important virulence determinant of 
vegetation development and disease progression. Streptococcal exo -
polysaccharide production inversely correlates with platelet adhesion while inhibiting aggregation,
145 indicating that these surface molecules 
may enhance endocarditis at some pathogenic steps but not at others.
The manner in which S. aureus interacts with platelets in the 
pathogenesis of IE differs substantially from that of the viridans strep -
tococci. This interaction does not require the presence of specific 
antistaphylococcal antibody and is not amplified by the platelet Fc 
receptor.146 Platelet–S. aureus interactions for executing aggregation 
require fibrinogen as a bridging molecule but are independent of the primary platelet fibrinogen-binding site, the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa integrin receptor. In addition, it seems that S. aureus can bind to platelets via 
platelet-derived von Willebrand factor or directly to von Willebrand 
factor receptor, at von Willebrand factor–binding domain.
147–149 In 
addition, platelet surface–expressed gC1qR can serve as a key “docking 
site” for staphylococci, predominantly through bridging molecules such as protein A and von Willebrand factor.
150 In experimental IE, transposon 
inactivation of the putative S. aureus platelet-binding adhesin gene 
resulted in mutants with diminished capacity to adhere to platelets in vitro in either suspension or surface-bound monolayers.
151 In experi -
mental IE caused by such low–platelet-binding mutants, the induction rates of IE were equivalent to the induction rates of the parental strain, presumably because of the microbe’s ability to attach to damaged endothelium by multiple adhesive mechanisms. However, the capacity 
of the mutant to persist and proliferate within experimental vegetations 
and to disseminate hematogenously to the kidneys was markedly impaired in the mutant strain.
151 This transposon defect was found to reside 
within the staphylococcal fibrinogen adhesin gene, clumping factor A (clfA).
152
Platelets also may play a role in host defense within the cardiac 
vegetation during IE.153 It is underappreciated that platelets can actually 
phagocytose circulating staphylococci into engulfment vacuoles, in which the organism can persist.
154 Moreover, after specific exposure to 
thrombin (which is plentiful at the surface of damaged endothelium), release of α-granule–derived platelet microbicidal proteins (PMPs) or 
thrombocidins with bactericidal activity against most gram-positive 
cocci that cause IE has been shown.
155 PMPs appear to be homologues 
of platelet factor 4,156 whereas thrombocidins evolve from the platelet 
basic peptide lineage and are truncates of the chemokines NAP-2 and 
CTAP-3.157 Although the ability of S. aureus  to adhere to and aggregate 
platelets is a related property, the resistance to PMPs is an independent phenotypic characteristic and a potential virulence factor.
158 PMPs are 
low-molecular-weight (8–10  kD a) cationic proteins that act primarily 
on the bacterial cell membrane or cell wall, synergistically with antibiotics, to kill bacteria. PMPs also have shown fungicidal activity against some yeasts in vitro.
159
Microbial resistance to the microbicidal activity of PMPs may 
contribute to the pathogenesis of IE. This hypothesis was supported by a reduction in vegetation weight and bacterial concentration in rabbits with experimental aortic valve S. aureus endocarditis after treatment 
with aspirin.
160 In addition, three studies in experimental IE confirmed 
the importance of the relationship of PMP resistance and the pathogenesis of IE. In experimental viridans streptococcal IE and S. aureus  IE, PMP-
resistant strains exhibited an enhanced capacity to persist at sites of valvular damage.
161,162 In addition, S. aureus  strains exhibiting the PMP 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1075Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections protect the organism from neutrophil killing. Therefore a single dietary 
modification (i.e., Mn restriction) may be able to help amplify host antistaphylococcal defenses in patients at risk for S. aureus IE. Of interest, 
companies are focusing vaccine efforts to include components designed to raise antibodies against the S. aureus Mn receptor.
199
Rheumatoid factor (anti-IgG IgM antibody) develops in about 50% 
of patients with IE of longer than 6 weeks’ duration.200 Rheumatoid 
factors were found at the time of admission in 24% of patients with acute staphylococcal IE ( <6 weeks’ duration), and the frequency increased 
to 40% if fever persisted for 2 weeks after the initiation of antibiotic therapy.
201 More than two-thirds of the patients became seronegative 
after 6 weeks of therapy, and two patients with a second episode of acute IE promptly redeveloped positive rheumatoid factors. The titers correlated with the level of hypergammaglobulinemia and decreased with therapy. Rheumatoid factor may play a role in the disease process 
by blocking IgG opsonic activity (i.e., by reacting with the Fc fragment), 
stimulating phagocytosis, or accelerating microvascular damage. Rheumatoid factor (IgM) has not been eluted from the immune complex glomerulonephritis associated with IE.
202 Antinuclear antibodies also 
occur in IE and may contribute to the musculoskeletal manifestations, low-grade fever, or pleuritic pain.
203
Similar to malaria, schistosomiasis, syphilis, kala-azar, and leprosy, 
IE is associated with a constant intravascular antigenic challenge, and the development of several classes of circulating antibody is not unex -
pected. Opsonic (IgG), agglutinating (IgG, IgM), and complement-fixing (IgG, IgM) antibodies and cryoglobulins (IgG, IgM, IgA, C3, fibrinogen); 
various antibodies to bacterial heat-shock proteins; and macroglobulins 
all have been described in IE.
204–206 Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies 
(ANCAs) were present in 12 of 50 patients (24%) in a recent series and were associated with longer duration of symptoms before IE diagnosis.
207 
Circulating immune complexes have been found in high titers in almost all patients with IE.
208 Circulating immune complexes are found with 
increased frequency in connection with a long duration of illness, extravalvular manifestations, hypocomplementemia, and right-sided IE. Levels decrease and become undetectable with successful therapy. Patients with IE and circulating immune complexes may develop a 
diffuse glomerulonephritis that is analogous to the nephritis seen with 
infected ventriculoatrial shunts.
209 Corticosteroids have been used in a 
few patients with glomerulonephritis associated with IE.210 Immune 
complexes plus complement are deposited subepithelially along the glomerular basement membrane to form a “lumpy-bumpy” pattern. Immune globulin eluted from these lesions has been shown to cross react with bacterial antigens.
211 In addition, bacterial antigens have been 
shown within circulating immune complexes.212
Some of the peripheral manifestations of IE, such as Osler nodes, 
also may result from a deposition of circulating immune complexes. Pathologically, these lesions resemble an acute Arthus reaction. The finding of positive culture aspirates in Osler nodes
213 suggests, however, 
that they may be caused by septic emboli rather than immune complex deposition. In some diffuse purpuric lesions in IE, immune complex deposits (IgG, IgM, and complement) have been shown in the dermal 
blood vessels by immunofluorescence.
214 Quantitative determinations 
of serum immune complex concentrations are useful in gauging the 
response to therapy. Effective treatment leads to a prompt decrease, with eventual disappearance of circulating immune complexes.
215 
Conversely, therapeutic failures or relapses are characterized by rising titers or a reappearance of circulating immune complexes.
216
Pathologic Changes
Heart
The classic vegetation of IE usually is located along the line of closure 
of a valve leaflet on the atrial surface of atrioventricular valves or on the ventricular surface of semilunar valves. Vegetations may be single or multiple; they are a few millimeters to several centimeters in size and vary in color, consistency, and gross appearance. Microscopically, 
the lesion consists primarily of fibrin, platelet aggregates, and bacterial 
masses; neutrophils and red blood cells are rare. Killed bacteria detectable with Gram stain within these vegetations sometimes persist for months after therapy.
217 Destruction of the underlying valve may coexist. With 
treatment, healing occurs by fibrosis and occasionally calcification. The of prothrombin to thrombin, amplifying the procoagulant cascade at the site of endothelial cell colonization and leading to progressive 
evolution of the vegetative lesion in IE. Several studies have emphasized 
that organisms with low protease production (e.g., enterococci) are associated with larger, more friable vegetations with an increased tendency for embolization. This property was underscored in an elegant animal study by inducing IE with an enterococcus with low proteolytic activity and virulence to analyze the role of host proteases in vegetation growth. Matrix metalloprotease 9, elastase, and plasminogen activators were all present at higher concentrations in septic vegetations. These results suggest that the continuous attractant signals coming from bacterial 
colonies can result in chronic injury of myocardial tissues by host 
proteases.
Immunopathologic Factors
IE results in stimulation of humoral and cellular immunity, as mani -
fested by hypergammaglobulinemia, splenomegaly, and the presence of macrophages in the peripheral blood. The possibility that preformed antibody can increase the likelihood of the development of IE was suggested by the spontaneous occurrence of IE in horses receiving 
repeated immunizations with live pneumococci.
184 It was suggested 
that these antibodies produced bacterial agglutination in vivo, which 
increased the chances of valvular colonization. Studies in animals have suggested a protective role for circulating antibody. Rabbits preimmunized with heat-killed streptococci plus Freund adjuvant had 
a significantly higher ID
50 than that noted for nonimmunized controls 
after aortic valve trauma.185 Other studies yielded similar results with 
S. sanguinis, S. mutans,  and S. pneumoniae.186,187 In additional experi -
ments, antibody directed against cell surface components (including 
mannan) reduced the adhesion of C. albicans to fibrin and platelets in 
vitro and reduced IE production in vivo.188 This effect may depend on 
the infecting organism, however, because antibody to S. epidermidis  
or S. aureus did not prevent the development of IE in immunized 
animals and did not result in reduced bacterial concentrations in infected vegetations or kidneys,
189 perhaps because of the inability of 
immune sera to enhance opsonophagocytosis of staphylococci. The role of preformed antibody in the pathogenesis of IE is unclear. Intravascular agglutination of bacteria may decrease the frequency of IE by reduc -
ing the actual number of circulating organisms, but cross-protection 
was not achieved with passive transfer of high-titer immune globulin 
from Streptococcus defectivus –immunized rabbits to control animals.
187 
Nitrogen mustard–treated immunized rabbits lost their ability to clear S. 
defectivus  efficiently from the circulation, a process partially restored by  
neutrophil transfusion.190
The role of the glycocalyx of S. aureus, and of antibodies directed 
against this exopolysaccharide, in the pathogenesis of IE is controversial. Most experimental studies suggest that microencapsulation of strains by the common capsular types (5 and 8) may mitigate virulence of the organism in IE by obscuring key surface-expressed adhesins involved 
in colonization or persistence at endovascular damage sites.
191
Several more recent studies suggested a salutary effect of active or 
passive immunization strategies against this glycocalyx in diminishing 
the induction, progression, or metastatic infection phases of experimental IE.
192,193 However, large clinical trials have not been able to document 
salutary outcomes using active or passive immunization strategies directed against the staphylococcal capsule or candidate surface adhesins (e.g., clumping factor).
194–197
One relatively unexplored area of pathogenesis of IE is dietary impacts 
on susceptibility to this infection. It is known that diet, and specifically dietary metals, can modify the risk of infection. However, for example, the mechanisms by which manganese (Mn), a common dietary supple -
ment, alters infection remain undefined. The Skaar laboratory
198 has 
reported that dietary Mn levels can dictate the outcome of experimental S. aureus cardiac infections. Mice fed a high-Mn diet displayed increased Mn levels, with preferential localization in and around cardiac abscesses. Although the canonical mammalian Mn-sequestering protein calprotectin 
surrounded such lesions, it was not released into the abscess nidus and 
did not limit Mn within cardiac abscesses. Consequently, excess Mn was bioavailable to the organism in the depths of these lesions. Bioavail -
able Mn is used by S. aureus to detoxify reactive oxygen species and 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1076Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
7. A nti–glomerular basement membrane antibody has been found 
in a single case of IE with nephritis.
8. Th e glomerulonephritis often is accompanied by 
hypocomplementemia, with a positive result on serum assay for 
rheumatoid factor.
9. A ll of these abnormalities usually resolve with successful 
antimicrobial therapy as the concentration of circulating immune complexes declines.
Mycotic Aneurysms
Mycotic aneurysms usually develop during active IE but occasionally are detected months or years after successful treatment. They are more common with viridans streptococcal infections and are found in 10% to 15% of autopsied cases. They may arise by any of several mechanisms: (1) direct bacterial invasion of the arterial wall with subsequent abscess 
formation or rupture, (2) septic or bland embolic occlusion of the vasa 
vasorum, or (3) immune complex deposition with resultant injury to the arterial wall. The aneurysms tend to occur at bifurcation points. They are found most commonly in the cerebral vessels (primarily the peripheral branches of the middle cerebral artery), but they also occur in the abdominal aorta; the sinus of Valsalva; a ligated patent ductus arteriosus; and the splenic, coronary, pulmonary, and superior mesenteric arteries. Mycotic aneurysms usually are clinically silent until rupture occurs; consequently, their true incidence in active IE is unknown.
223 
Magnetic resonance angiography is a sensitive method for detection of mycotic aneurysms. For example, a prospective single-center study that evaluated 130 consecutive IE patients with cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with angiography regardless of symptoms found 10 
additional aneurysms that were clinically silent.
224
Central Nervous System
Cerebral emboli are the most common neurologic manifestation of 
IE.225 Although 20% to 30% of patients with IE have clinically apparent 
cerebral emboli, the actual rate of cerebrovascular complications is significantly higher. In a study from Sweden, patients with left-sided IE were prospectively evaluated with cerebral MRI regardless of neu -
rologic symptoms. The total cerebrovascular complication rate was 65%, 
including 35% that were symptomatic and 30% that were clinically 
silent.
226 This finding was externally validated in a French study that 
prospectively evaluated 130 IE patients with cerebral MRI with angi-ography within 7 days of admission and prior to any potential surgical intervention. MRI identified cerebral lesions in 82% of patients and led to changes in the diagnostic or therapeutic plan in 28% of the study 
patients.
224 A multinational, prospective cohort investigation of 1437 
cases of definite left-sided IE found that the crude incidence of stroke 
in patients receiving appropriate antimicrobial therapy was 4.82 cases per 1000 patient-days in the first week and fell to 1.71 per 1000 patient-days in the second week.
227 The middle cerebral artery and its branches 
are involved most commonly.46 Three percent of the cerebral emboli 
from all causes are secondary to IE. Cerebral infarction, arteritis, abscesses, mycotic aneurysms, intracerebral or subarachnoid hemorrhage, 
encephalomalacia, cerebritis, and meningitis have been reported.
228 
Hemorrhagic transformation of an ischemic infarct due to septic emboli 
is the most common mechanism leading to fatal intracerebral hemorrhage during IE.
229 True acute purulent meningitis is rare except in pneumococ -
cal endocarditis, but multiple microabscesses (cerebritis) due to S. aureus  
are relatively common in acute staphylococcal IE.
Spleen
Splenic infarctions have been reported in 44% of autopsy cases but often are clinically silent.
46 Splenic abscesses are an uncommon complica -
tion of IE and typically manifest as fever, left upper quadrant abdominal pain, and leukocytosis. Diagnosis is established with computed tomog -
raphy (CT) or ultrasonography.
230,231 Although splenectomy is a standard 
therapy for splenic abscess, percutaneous drainage may be an alternative in selected patients.
232 Splenic enlargement is common, and virtually 
all cases are associated with hyperplasia of the lymphoid follicles, an increase in secondary follicles, proliferation of reticuloendothelial cells, and scattered focal necrosis.
218 Spontaneous rupture of the spleen has 
occasionally been observed.vegetation in acute cases is larger, softer, and more friable and may be associated with suppuration, more necrosis, and less healing than in 
subacute cases.
46,218
This infection may lead to perforation of the valve leaflet or rupture 
of the chordae tendineae, interventricular septum, or papillary muscle. 
Staphylococcal IE frequently results in valve ring abscesses219 with fistula 
formation into areas of the myocardium or pericardial sac. Aneurysm of the valve leaflet or sinus of Valsalva also is common. Valvular stenosis may result from large vegetations. Myocarditis, myocardial infarction, and pericarditis
218,219 are found frequently at autopsy. Myocardial abscesses 
are found in 20% of the autopsy cases and are associated primarily with acute staphylococcal IE with hectic fever, a rapid onset of CHF , and conduction disturbances. Myocardial infarcts are found in 40% to 60% of the autopsied cases, often without diagnostic changes on the elec-
trocardiogram. Pericarditis is much more common in patients with 
acute IE.
Echocardiographic abnormalities are commonly observed in patients 
with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), but pericardial disease (pericarditis, effusions), myocardial disease leading to heart failure or arrhythmias, NBTE, and Kaposi sarcoma all are generally more frequent than IE. AIDS patients with IE usually are injection drug users with right-sided involvement and have an increased prevalence of cases due to S. aureus or fungi.
220 The clinical course in AIDS patients 
often is more fulminant than that of IE in injection drug users without AIDS; pneumonia and sepsis are common. IE also has been described in the transplanted heart.
221
Embolic phenomena are common in IE. In the preantibiotic era, 
70% to 95% of patients had clinically demonstrable embolic events, but this has decreased to 15% to 35% today. Pathologic evidence of emboliza -
tion still is detected in 45% to 65% of autopsies, most frequently involving the renal, splenic, coronary, or cerebral circulation. Emboli and immune complex deposition contribute to the extracardiac manifestations of IE and may involve almost any organ system. If large emboli occlude major vessels, fungal endocarditis, marantic endocarditis, or an intracardiac 
myxoma should be suspected.
Kidney
Three pathologic processes may be found in the kidney in patients with 
IE: abscess, infarction, and glomerulonephritis. Abscesses are uncommon, but infarctions have been seen in 56% of the autopsy cases.
2 The kidney 
usually is normal in size but may be slightly swollen, and petechiae may be found in the capsule. When renal biopsy specimens are obtained during active IE, the renal architecture is abnormal in all cases,
222 even 
in the absence of clinical or biochemical evidence of renal disease. “Focal” glomerulonephritis is found in 48% to 88% of the cases but is rare in acute IE. It is a focal, local, and segmental process characterized by endothelial and mesangial proliferation, hemorrhage, neutrophilic 
infiltration, fibrinoid necrosis, crescent formation, and healing by fibrosis. 
Diffuse glomerulonephritis is found in 17% to 80% of the cases and consists of generalized cellular hyperplasia in all glomerular tufts. A less common condition, termed membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis,  
is associated with IE due to S. epidermidis  and is characterized by marked 
mesangial proliferation and by splitting of the glomerular basement membrane. Renal interstitial cellular infiltration is common.
222
Between 10% and 15% of patients with IE exhibit an immune complex 
glomerulonephritis similar to that seen in SLE.209,211,215,216 The evidence 
for immune complex deposition rather than a recurrent embolic phenomenon as the primary pathogenic mechanism includes the following:
1. B acteria are rarely, if ever, seen in the lesions.
2. G lomerulonephritis can occur with right-sided IE.
3. G lomerulonephritis is rare in acute IE, even though large, friable 
vegetations result in widespread metastatic abscess formation.
4. I mmunofluorescent staining with antiimmunoglobulin antibody 
reveals the typical lumpy-bumpy distribution seen in other forms of immune complex nephritis.
5. I n diffuse glomerulonephritis, subepithelial electron-dense 
deposits are seen with electron microscopy and IgG, IgM, IgA, or complement is shown in these deposits with immunofluorescence.
6. S pecific antibacterial antibody can be eluted from the lesions.211
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1077Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections immunopathologic factors.41–44,46 As a result, the clinical presentation 
of patients with IE is highly variable and the differential diagnosis often 
is broad. Because of its many manifestations, the diagnosis of IE may be delayed; occasionally, it is not clinically suspected and is identified only at postmortem examination.
236–238 In a recent postmortem study of IE 
cases, in 38.2% IE was not diagnosed until autopsy. Important to note, Fernández Guerrero and colleagues found no significant difference in rates of “clinically occult” IE diagnoses before (1970–1985) and after (1986–2008) the availability of echocardiography at their institution (35% 
vs. 42.8%, respectively).
239 Fever is common but may be absent (5% of 
cases), especially in the setting of CHF , renal failure, a terminal disease, 
older age,240,241 or previous antibiotic therapy. The fever pattern is usually 
remittent, and the patient’s temperature rarely exceeds 40°C (104°F), except in acute IE. Persistent fever during antimicrobial therapy for IE is Lung
When right-sided IE is present, pulmonary embolism with or without infarction, acute pneumonia, pleural effusion, or empyema is common. These septic pulmonary emboli commonly manifest on chest radiographs as rounded, “cannonball” lesions. Emboli may be septic or bland.
220
Skin
Petechiae are found in 20% to 40% of cases ( Fig. 80.2 ) (see later discus -
sion). Osler nodes consist microscopically of arteriolar intimal prolifera -
tion with extension to venules and capillaries and may be accompanied by thrombosis and necrosis. A diffuse perivascular infiltrate consisting of neutrophils and monocytes surrounds the dermal vessels. Immune 
complexes have been shown in the dermal vessels. Janeway lesions 
consist of bacteria, neutrophilic infiltration, necrosis, and subcutaneous hemorrhage (Fig. 80.3). Janeway lesions (see later description) are caused by septic emboli and reveal subcutaneous abscesses at histologic examination.
233
Eye
Roth spots consist microscopically of lymphocytes surrounded by edema and hemorrhage in the nerve fiber layer of the retina (Fig. 80.4).
234
Clinical Manifestations
The interval between an event likely to produce high-grade bacteremia and the onset of symptoms of IE, contrary to older estimates, is quite short. The so-called incubation period in 84% of 76 cases of streptococcal IE was less than 2 weeks.
235 On the other hand, the time from onset of 
symptoms to diagnosis in the subacute form of IE is quite long, with a median interval of approximately 5 weeks. Symptom duration of cases managed in community hospitals is often shorter than in patients referred to a tertiary care center, reflecting referral bias.
4
The symptoms and signs of IE (Table 80.3) can be protean, and 
essentially any organ system may be involved. Four processes contribute to the clinical picture
46: (1) the infectious process on the valve, including 
the local intracardiac complications; (2) bland or septic embolization to virtually any organ; (3) constant bacteremia, often with metastatic foci of infection; and (4) circulating immune complexes and other 
FIG. 80.2  Conjunctival petechiae in a patient with bacterial 
endocarditis. 
FIG. 80.3  Janeway lesions in a patient with Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis.  (From Sande MA, Strausbaugh LJ. Infective endocarditis. In: 
Hook EW, Mandell GL, Gwaltney JM Jr, et  al, eds. Current Concepts of 
Infectious Diseases. New York: Wiley Press; 1977.)
FIG. 80.4  Retina from a patient with viridans streptococcal endo -
carditis showing Roth spots.  (From Sande MA, Strausbaugh LJ. Infective 
endocarditis. In: Hook EW, Mandell GL, Gwaltney JM Jr, et  al, eds. Current 
Concepts of Infectious Diseases . New York: Wiley Press; 1977.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1078Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
disease is of long duration, and may recede with therapy. The complete 
syndrome of hypertrophic osteoarthropathy is rare. Splinter hemorrhages are linear, red-to-brown streaks in the fingernails or toenails and are found commonly in IE. They are a nonspecific finding and are seen often in elderly patients and in patients with occupation-related trauma. 
These lesions are most suggestive of IE when they are located proximally 
in the nailbed. Petechiae are found in 20% to 40% of cases, particularly after a prolonged course, and usually appear in crops on the conjunctivae (see Fig. 80.2), buccal mucosa, palate, and extremities. These lesions initially are red and nonblanching but become brown and barely visible in 2 to 3 days. Petechiae may result from local vasculitis or from emboli. Osler nodes are small, painful, nodular lesions usually found in the pads of fingers or toes and occasionally in the thenar eminence. They 
are 2 to 15  m m and frequently are multiple and evanescent, disappearing 
in hours to days. Osler nodes are rare in acute cases of IE but occur in 10% to 25% of subacute cases. They are not specific for IE, because they may be seen in SLE, marantic endocarditis, hemolytic anemia, and gonococcal infections and in extremities with cannulated radial arteries. Janeway lesions (see Fig. 80.3) are hemorrhagic, painless macules with 
a predilection for the palms or soles. They persist for several days and 
are believed to be embolic in origin; they occur with greater frequency in staphylococcal IE. Roth spots (see Fig. 80.4) are oval, pale, retinal lesions surrounded by hemorrhage and usually are located near the optic disk. They occur in fewer than 5% of patients with IE and also may be found in patients with anemia, leukemia, or connective tissue disorders such as SLE.
Splenomegaly
The frequency of splenomegaly in IE patients has declined significantly in the current era. Among 2662 prospectively enrolled patients with definite IE in whom the finding was recorded, 11% had splenomegaly.
7 
In part, this changing frequency may reflect the much shorter time to diagnosis and treatment today and the predominance of acute rather than subacute IE. Splenic septic emboli are common during IE, but localized signs and symptoms are absent in approximately 90% of patients 
with this complication.
247 Abdominal CT is highly sensitive and should 
be employed if prolonged fever or sepsis is present. Serial CT studies 
usually can be used to distinguish between bland septic emboli and splenic abscess.
248
Musculoskeletal Manifestations
Musculoskeletal manifestations are common in IE. In a review of 192 cases,
249 44% of patients had musculoskeletal symptoms. These symptoms 
usually occurred early in the disease and were the only initial complaint in 15% of cases. They included proximal oligoarticular or monarticular arthralgias (38%), lower-extremity monarticular or oligoarticular arthritis (31%), low back pain (23%), and diffuse myalgias (19%). The back pain 
may be severe, limiting movement, and may be the initial complaint 
in 5% to 10% of cases.
29 These findings may mimic those of rheumatic 
disease, resulting in a diagnostic delay.
Embolic Events
Major embolic episodes, as a group, are second only to CHF as a complication of IE and occur in almost one-fourth of cases.
7 Splenic 
artery emboli with infarction may result in left upper quadrant abdominal pain with radiation to the left shoulder, a splenic or pleural rub, or a left pleural effusion. Renal infarctions may be associated with microscopic or gross hematuria, but renal failure, hypertension, and edema are 
uncommon. Retinal artery emboli are rare ( <2% of cases) and may 
manifest with a sudden complete loss of vision. A panophthalmitis has 
been reported with pneumococcal IE. Pulmonary emboli secondary to right-sided IE constitute a common feature in narcotic addicts (see later discussion). Coronary artery emboli usually arise from the aortic valve and may cause myocarditis with arrhythmias or myocardial infarction. This finding may be overlooked, especially given the time constraints of interventions such as thrombolytic therapy or angioplasty during acute myocardial infarction, resulting in serious complications 
in patients with IE presenting with an acute myocardial infarction.
250 
Major vessel emboli (affecting the femoral, brachial, popliteal, or radial 
artery) are more common in fungal endocarditis.relatively uncommon but may be an ominous sign. In a review242 of 123 
cases of IE managed in Cleveland from 1972 to 1984, approximately half of the patients became afebrile within 3 days after the initiation of antibiotics; approximately 75% had defervesced after 1 week of treatment and 90% did so after 2 weeks of treatment. Prolonged fever (of 2 weeks’ duration) 
is associated with specific etiologic agents (i.e., S. aureus,  gram-negative 
bacilli, fungi, culture-negative IE) and, perhaps more important, with 
microvascular phenomena, embolization of major vessels, intracardiac (e.g., myocardial abscess) or peripheral complications, tissue infarction, a need for cardiac surgery, and a higher mortality rate.
242,243 Pulmonary 
emboli (bland), drug reactions, and nosocomial infection unrelated to IE also are causes of prolonged fever in this patient population.
Nonspecific symptoms, such as anorexia, weight loss, malaise, fatigue, 
chills, weakness, nausea, vomiting, and night sweats, are common, 
especially in subacute cases. These nonspecific symptoms often result 
in an incorrect diagnosis of malignancy, collagen vascular disease, tuberculosis, or other chronic diseases.
Cardiac Murmurs
Traditionally, audible heart murmurs occurred in more than 85% of IE cases. However, recent changes in the epidemiology and microbiology of IE appear to have altered the presentation of IE. For example, in the 
ICE-PCS experience with more than 2700 prospectively identified IE 
patients, only 48% had a detectable “new” cardiac murmur, whereas a further 20% exhibited worsening of an existing murmur.
7 Moreover, 
murmurs may well be absent with right-sided or mural IE. When present, the classic “changing murmur” and “new regurgitant murmur” (usually aortic insufficiency) are diagnostically useful signs, often complicating 
IE caused by more virulent valvular pathogens such as S. aureus,  group 
B streptococci, or pneumococci. New or changing murmurs are less 
common in elderly patients and often lead to diagnostic confusion.
240,244 
More than 90% of patients who show a new regurgitant murmur develop CHF . CHF is the leading complication of IE.
245 Pericarditis is rare but, 
when present, usually is accompanied by myocardial abscess forma -
tion as a complication of staphylococcal infection. Although valvular regurgitation is the most important hemodynamic complication of IE, hemodynamically significant valvular obstruction requiring surgery 
may occur rarely, even without a prior history of valvular stenosis.
246
Peripheral Manifestations of  
Infective Endocarditis
Although the classic peripheral manifestations previously were found 
in half of cases, their prevalence has decreased in recent years. Clubbing is present in 10% to 20% of patients with subacute IE, especially if the TABLE 80.3  Clinical Findings in Mor e Than 2700 
Patients With Definite Endocarditis
SIGNS PATIENTS (%)
Fever 96
Heart murmur 85
Changing murmur 20
New murmur 48
Vascular embolic event 17
Osler nodes 3
Splinter hemorrhages 8
Janeway lesion 5
Splenomegaly 11
Roth spots 2
Hematuria 26
Conjunctival hemorrhage 5
Modified from Murdoch DR, Corey GR, Hoen B, et  al. Clinical presentation, 
etiology, and outcome of patients with infective endocarditis in the 21st century: 
the International Collaboration on Endocarditis–Prospective Cohort Study. Arch 
Intern Med. 2009;169:463.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1079Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections severe than in nonaddicts,261 although this may not be true in AIDS 
patients. HIV-seropositive patients acquire IE by one of two mechanisms: 
through injection drug abuse or as a complication of long-term central venous catheterization for administration of medications (e.g., for cytomegalovirus [CMV] retinitis). In either situation, S. aureus is the 
most common etiologic organism. IE is more common among injection drug users with advanced HIV immunosuppression (CD4
+ count, <200 
cells/mm3), even after accounting for injection drug use behaviors.264 
Conversely, among HIV-infected persons who do not practice injection drug use, IE is rare despite the increasing number of HIV-infected patients worldwide.
220 In the absence of injection drug abuse, HIV-
seropositive patients develop left-sided and right-sided IE with equal frequency.
265 In contrast, in the setting of injection drug abuse, HIV-
seropositive patients develop predominantly right-sided IE. The IE-related morbidity and mortality rates in HIV-seropositive patients who do not have an AIDS-defining illness or criteria are similar to the rates in HIV-seronegative counterparts.
265
Laboratory Findings
Hematologic parameters often are abnormal in IE, but none is diagnostic. Anemia is almost always present (70%–90% of cases), especially in subacute IE, and has the characteristics of the anemia of chronic disease, with normochromic normocytic indices, a low serum iron concentration, and a low iron-binding capacity. The anemia tends to worsen with the 
duration of the illness. Thrombocytopenia occurs in 5% to 15% of cases 
but is common in neonatal IE. Leukocytosis is present in 20% to 30% of cases but is rare in the subacute variety, whereas counts of 15,000 to 25,000 cells/mm
3 are common in acute IE. The differential count usually 
is normal, but there may be a slight shift to the left. Leukopenia is uncommon (5%–15%); when present, it usually is associated with splenomegaly. Large mononuclear cells (histiocytes) can be detected in the peripheral blood in approximately 25% of patients, but the yield is 
higher in blood obtained by earlobe puncture. This finding is nonspecific, 
because similar cells have been found in malaria, typhus, typhoid fever, and tuberculosis.
The erythrocyte sedimentation rate is elevated in approximately 60% 
of contemporary IE cases.
7 In the absence of renal failure, CHF , or 
disseminated intravascular coagulation, a normal erythrocyte sedimenta -
tion rate is evidence against a diagnosis of IE. Hypergammaglobulinemia is detected in 20% to 30% of the cases and may be accompanied by a plasmacytosis in the bone marrow aspirate. A positive result on assay 
for rheumatoid factor is found in 40% to 50% of cases, especially when 
the duration of the illness is more than 6 weeks.
200 Hypocomplementemia 
(reported in 5%–15% of cases) parallels the incidence of abnormal renal function test results (elevated creatinine concentration in 5%–15%). A false-positive result on Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) testing is uncommon (0.2%). Lyme serologic test results may be positive 
in patients with IE who are living in areas endemic for Lyme disease 
and may be reflective of remote exposure to the pathogen, leading to diagnostic confusion and delay.
266
The urinalysis frequently is abnormal; proteinuria occurs in 50% 
to 65% of cases, and microscopic hematuria occurs in 30% to 60% of cases. Red blood cell casts may be seen in 12% of cases. Gross hematuria, pyuria, white blood cell casts, and bacteriuria also may be  
found.
Circulating immune complexes can be detected in most cases of IE 
but also are found in 32% of patients who have septicemia but no endocarditis, in 10% of healthy persons, and in 40% of noninfected narcotic addicts.
200 However, levels of aggregated human immune globulin 
equivalent to or greater than 100  µg/mL were found only in IE (35% 
of the cases). Detection of high levels of immune complexes may be useful in the diagnosis of right-sided IE in narcotic addicts or in culture-negative cases. In addition, because the levels decline with appropriate treatment, serial measurement of immune complexes may assist in 
management of the disease.
215,216 Mixed-type cryoglobulins are detectable 
in 84% to 95% of patients with IE, but this also constitutes a nonspecific 
finding. Serial determination of the serum C-reactive protein concentra -
tion, although nonspecific and virtually always elevated in IE, may be useful to monitor therapy and detect intercurrent complications or 
infections.
267Neurologic Manifestations
Neurologic manifestations occur in 20% to 40% of all IE cases. In IE 
cases admitted to intensive care units, however, neurologic manifestations are the most common IE complication, occurring in 55% of patients.
251 
Patients with S. aureus IE, mitral valve IE, or nonneurologic embolic 
events are at increased risk for neurologic complications. Of patients with neurologic complications, 50% present with these signs and symptoms as the heralding features of their illness.
252,253 In a Finnish 
survey of 218 episodes of definite or possible IE, neurologic complica -
tions were identified in 55 episodes (25%), with an embolic event as the most common manifestation (23 of 55 patients, or 42%). Among critically ill IE patients, however, over half may have a neurologic 
complication.
251 In most episodes (76%), the neurologic manifesta -
tion was evident before antimicrobial treatment was started, being 
the first sign of IE in 47% of episodes.254 The development of clinical 
neurologic deterioration during IE is associated with a twofold to fourfold increase in mortality for the implicated etiologic microbe.
215 
Mycotic aneurysms of the cerebral circulation occur in 2% to 10% of cases. They usually are single, small, and peripheral and may lead to devastating subarachnoid hemorrhage. Other features include seizures, severe headache, visual changes (particularly homonymous 
hemianopsias), choreoathetoid movements, mononeuropathy, and cranial 
nerve palsies. Toxic encephalopathy with symptoms ranging from a mild change in personality to frank psychosis may occur, especially in  
elderly patients.
Renal Manifestations
Patients with IE may have symptoms of uremia. In the preantibiotic era, renal failure developed in 25% to 35% of the patients, but presently fewer than 10% are affected. When uremia does develop, diffuse glo -
merulonephritis with hypocomplementemia usually is found, but focal glomerulonephritis also has been implicated. Renal failure is more 
common with long-standing disease but usually is reversible with 
appropriate antimicrobial treatment alone. IE may be confused with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura if neurologic signs, fever, renal failure, anemia, and thrombocytopenia are present.
255
Infective Endocarditis in Drug Addicts
Acute infection accounts for approximately 60% of hospital admissions among injection drug users, and IE is implicated in 5% to 15% of these episodes.
256 It has proved difficult to predict accurately the presence of 
IE in a febrile drug addict,257 especially from history and physical 
examination findings alone,258 although cocaine use by an injection 
drug user should heighten the suspicion of IE.259 Cocaine was associated 
strongly with the presence of IE in 102 injection drug users in San Francisco when findings were analyzed with logistic regression analysis, but no such correlation was found among febrile addicts who did not use cocaine. The most reliable predictors of IE in febrile parenteral drug 
users are visualization of vegetations with echocardiography and the 
presence of embolic phenomena.
258 Although many of the aforementioned 
clinical manifestations are seen in addicts with IE, several distinctions are noteworthy. In this group of patients, two-thirds have no clinical evidence of underlying heart disease and there is a predilection for the 
infection to affect the tricuspid valve. Only 35% of addicts who ultimately 
proved to have IE showed heart murmurs on admission.
256 The frequency 
of valvular involvement is as follows: tricuspid alone or in combination with others, 52.2%; aortic alone, 18.5%; mitral alone, 10.8%; and aortic plus mitral, 12.5%. Left-sided involvement has been more common in some series, however.
260
Of patients with tricuspid valve infection, 30% have pleuritic chest 
pain; pulmonary findings may dominate the clinical picture, and the chest radiograph shows abnormalities (e.g., infiltrates, effusion) in 75% to 85% of the cases.
261 Radiographic evidence of septic pulmonary emboli 
is eventually present in 87% of cases.262 Signs of tricuspid insufficiency 
(gallop rhythm, systolic regurgitant murmur louder with inspiration, large V waves, or a pulsatile liver) are present in only one-third of cases. Most of these patients are 20 to 40 years old (80%), and men predominate 
in a ratio of 4  :  1 t o 6  :  1. A lmost two-thirds of these patients have 
extravalvular sites of infection, which are helpful in the diagnosis.261–263 
The course of acute staphylococcal IE in an addict tends to be less 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1080Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
patient has received antibiotics, blood cultures in hypertonic media 
may allow detection of cell wall–defective organisms.
Supplementation of media with vitamin B 6 or with cysteine may 
assist in the recovery of Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp. The lysis-
centrifugation blood culture technique assists in the detection of staphylococci
284 and fungi, but Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp. do 
not survive this procedure, and yields of pneumococci and anaerobes are decreased.
285 Routine use of this technique is not indicated, but it 
may be helpful in suspected culture-negative cases of IE. Because of improvements in blood culture media and automated blood culture incubation systems, extended incubation times of blood cultures are no longer necessary to recover HACEK organisms (see later discus -
sion).
280,286 Special efforts to neutralize or inactivate antimicrobial agents 
present in blood, such as the addition of penicillinase or of antibiotic-removal resins, do not substantially enhance the yield of positive blood cultures in IE, and they increase the incidence of laboratory contamina -
tion of the blood culture. These maneuvers are not recommended 
routinely.
285
Cultures of bone marrow or urine rarely may be positive when blood 
cultures are negative. Serologic studies are necessary for the diagnosis 
of Q fever or murine typhus.287 Psittacosis endocarditis usually is 
diagnosed with serologic methods, but one case288 yielded positive blood 
and pharyngeal cultures. Special culture techniques (e.g., for Legionella  
spp.289) are indicated in patients with suspected prosthetic valve IE if 
initial cultures are “negative. ”
Bartonella,  recognized as an important cause of apparent blood 
culture–negative IE (especially in homeless alcoholic patients), also can be isolated by prolonged incubation and subculture of the aerobic broth 
media (see Chapter 234).
290–294 Serologic strategies also may assist in 
the diagnosis of Bartonella  IE.291 In addition to blood culture and 
serodiagnostic strategies, as outlined previously, culture of valvular tissue 
or vegetations that have embolized to peripheral arteries and have been removed surgically may yield the causative organism. Microscopy of these tissues, including direct fluorescence antibody techniques and 
electron microscopy, may assist in making the etiologic diagnosis, 
particularly in cases caused by fastidious or intracellular pathogens, such as Tropheryma whipplei,
295 Chlamydia, Coxiella burnetii,296 and 
Legionella.297
Molecular techniques to recover specific DNA or 16S ribosomal 
RNA from valve tissue samples have been useful diagnostically in selected cases,
298 and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) studies performed on 
blood or serum may be highly useful for the diagnosis of IE caused by difficult-to-grow pathogens.
299 In an investigation comparing broad-range 
PCR results on resected endocardial specimens from 49 patients with suspected IE with results of culture and Gram staining of resected specimens and Duke criteria, bacterial DNA was shown within cardiac tissue in 18% of patients with sterile blood cultures.
300 Other tests to 
exclude collagen vascular diseases usually are necessary in patients undergoing evaluation for culture-negative native valve IE.
301
Although still rare, fungal IE is increasing in frequency and usually 
affects narcotic addicts, patients with prosthetic valves, or hospitalized 
patients receiving antibiotics or hyperalimentation or both.302 Low-birth-
weight neonates seem particularly prone to Candida  IE, predominantly 
on the tricuspid valve or right atrial mural endocardium.303 The rate of 
prosthetic valve endocarditis among fungemic patients with prosthetic 
heart valves was approximately 25% in one retrospective series.304 
Historically, over half of cases of fungal IE exhibited negative blood cultures.
305 The Castaneda principle (a culture of blood in a bottle 
containing agar and liquid broth) has been shown to increase the yield of fungal cultures.
279
Various serologic procedures have been used in an attempt to 
substantiate a diagnosis of fungal IE. Tests for the determination of anti- Candida  antibody are poorly standardized, variably sensitive, often 
nonspecific, and difficult to interpret.
306 Tests for mannan antigenemia 
(a constituent of the cell wall of Candida ) or enolase by hemagglutination 
inhibition and by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay307,308 have been 
reported as helpful in the diagnosis of disseminated candidiasis. In addition, a reliable radioimmunoassay for the detection of Aspergillus  
antigenemia is under investigation. If embolism to major vessels occurs, an embolectomy should be performed, and the material should be A number of nuclear imaging studies have been evaluated in the 
diagnosis of IE, including gallium 67 (
67Ga) myocardial,268 technetium 
99m (99mTc)–labeled antibacterial antibody,269 indium 111 (111In)–labeled 
platelets270; and fluorine 18 (18F)-fluorodeoxyglucose–labeled positron 
emission tomography.271 This last technique has been recommended to 
enhance diagnostic acumen in cases of suspected prosthetic valve IE.272
The blood culture is the most important laboratory test performed 
in a diagnostic workup for IE. The bacteremia is usually continuous and low grade (80% of patients have <100 CFUs/mL of blood).
273 When 
bacteremia is present, the first two blood cultures yield the etiologic agent more than 90% of the time. In a prospective cohort of more than 2700 prospectively identified contemporary patients with definite IE, 88.8% had positive blood cultures.
7 In streptococcal endocarditis, the 
first blood culture was positive in 96% of cases, and one of the first two cultures was positive in 98%. When antibiotics had been administered during the previous 2 weeks, the rate of positive cultures declined from 97% to 91% ( P < .02).
274 The influence of outpatient antibiotic administra -
tion on blood culture positivity was more significant in another retrospec -
tive analysis275; 64% of 88 cultures were positive in 17 patients receiving 
antibiotics before hospitalization, compared with 100% of cultures in 15 patients without antibiotic exposure. In nonstreptococcal IE, the first blood culture was positive in 86% of the cases; when two cultures were taken, the first culture was positive in 100%. Most blood cultures 
contained only a few organisms; more than 50% contained 1 to 30 
bacteria per milliliter. Only 17% of the cultures yielded more than 100 bacteria per milliliter. The bacteremia also was constant, with little variation in quantitative culture determinations in any individual patient. The sensitivity of blood cultures for the detection of streptococci is particularly susceptible to prior antibiotic therapy and is affected by the media used.
276 Continuous-monitoring blood culture systems such 
as BACTEC (Becton Dickinson, Mississauga, Ontario) and BacT/ALERT (Organon Teknika, Scarborough, Ontario) are significantly more sensitive than conventional methods.
On the basis of these studies, the following procedures for culturing 
blood are recommended. At least three blood culture sets (no more than two bottles per venipuncture) should be obtained in the first 24 hours. More specimens may be necessary if the patient has received 
antibiotics during the preceding 2 weeks. At least 10  mL o f blood (if 
feasible) should be injected into trypticase soy (or brain-heart infusion) and thioglycolate broth.
277,278 Supplementation with 15% sucrose (in an 
attempt to isolate cell wall–deficient forms) or the use of prereduced anaerobic media is unrewarding.
279 The newer commercial media are 
effective, but comparative data are few. In general, culture of arterial blood offers no advantage over use of venous blood. Inspection for macroscopic growth should be performed daily, and routine subcultures should be done on days 1 and 3. Specialized methods, and not extended 
incubation times, are recommended for recovery of fastidious agents 
of IE.
280 When gram-positive cocci grow on the initial isolation but fail 
to grow on subculture, Abiotrophia  or Granulicatella  spp. should be 
suspected.281 In this event, subculture inoculation should be onto media 
supplemented with either 0.05% to 0.1% l-cysteine or 0.001% pyridoxal 
phosphate.
Ribitol teichoic acids are major constituents of the cell wall of 
staphylococci. Gel diffusion and counterimmunoelectrophoresis techniques have been used to detect teichoic acid antibodies in the serum of patients with suspected S. aureus IE. Because of problems 
with false-positive and false-negative results, this test rarely is used now.
Special Diagnostic Tests
Special diagnostic tests are not used routinely (with the exception of echocardiography) in all cases of IE but may be useful in the diagnostic approach to culture-negative IE and in decisions about surgical interven -
tion during active infection. The incidence of so-called blood culture–negative endocarditis has ranged from 2.5% to 31% in published 
series.
282,283 If the patient has not received previous antibiotic therapy 
and the blood cultures are obtained as outlined, these cases should 
represent less than 5% of the total.3 Some of the aforementioned tests 
(e.g., assays for rheumatoid factor and teichoic acid antibodies, examina -
tion of earlobe blood specimens for histiocytes) may be helpful in identifying such cases, but other procedures often are necessary. If the 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1081Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections size (> 1 cm) wa s associated independently with an increased risk for 
stroke.319 Short-term changes in vegetation size during therapy do not 
correlate well with clinical outcome.320
One study suggested that an increase in vegetation size, as seen with 
echocardiography during treatment of IE, can identify a subset of patients 
with a higher rate of complications, independent of the presence of persistent bacteremia or overt clinical stigmata of IE.
321,322 Some studies 
have suggested that highly mobile vegetations constitute an independent increase in risk for complications in IE.
323 In other studies, vegetation 
mobility at echocardiography has not been an important independent risk factor for embolic events in IE, because it is correlated strongly with vegetation size.
288,314
One problem in considering the significance of these echocardio -
graphic characteristics is the high degree of interobserver variability in interpreting the echocardiographic images.
324 Inexperienced physicians 
do not understand this issue. In one investigation involving four readers independently interpreting TTE studies from 41 cases of IE, Heinle and colleagues reported that investigators agreed on vegetation mobility in 57% of the cases, vegetation shape in 36%, and vegetation attachment 
in 40%.
325 In a more recent study of intraobserver and interobserver 
agreement for a random sample of 110 echocardiograms from the ICE 
registry, interobserver agreement was highest for aortic abscess (kappa = 1.0) and vegetation location (kappa = 0.95) and lowest for mobility (kappa = 0.69).
326 This overall improved agreement relative to the Heinle 
study was attributed to digital image acquisition and inclusion of transesophageal echocardiograms.
Transesophageal Echocardiography
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) has altered the diagnostic approach to some patients with suspected IE.
327–332 TEE uses a 5-MHz 
phased-array transducer with Doppler and color flow encoding capabili -
ties mounted on the tip of a flexible endoscope. Biplane (horizontal and longitudinal) or omniplane imaging is preferred over TTE imaging because of (1) better spatial resolution with a higher-frequency transducer, 
(2) lack of acoustic interference (e.g., from lungs, chest wall), and (3) 
proximity to posterior structures (e.g., mitral valve, left atrium, interatrial septum, descending aorta).
329 TEE has proved useful in a wide variety 
of clinical situations, including detection of possible sources of emboli, diagnosis of thoracic aortic dissection, detection of prosthetic valve dysfunction, and evaluation of IE.
327–329 Intraoperative TEE imaging 
has become a valuable new tool, often providing real-time feedback to the surgical team during the procedure. Three-dimensional (3D) TEE has emerged as a potential adjunct to characterize valvular lesions. However, in one prospective cohort of 144 consecutive patients, 3D 
TEE was less sensitive than 2D TEE, with only one additional case of 
a vegetation detected with 3D TEE but not 2D TEE.
333
TEE is also more sensitive than conventional TTE in the detection 
of intracardiac vegetations (approximately 95% vs. 60%–65%, respec -
tively), particularly in the setting of prosthetic valves (see Chapter 81). In one report of 96 patients with IE,
330 the sensitivity of TEE was 100%, 
compared with 63% for TTE, and the specificity values were identical 
(98%). The advantage of TEE was particularly evident for vegetations 
smaller than 10  mm in di ameter. In another study,331 vegetations were 
detected with TEE in 82% of the cases, compared with 69% for TTE. 
Although negative results on TEE do not exclude IE,327–329,332 the procedure 
should be considered in patients with suspected IE and negative results on TTE. Potential sources of false-negative TEE studies include small vegetations and previous embolization of vegetations. If the clinical suspicion of IE is high and the results of an initial TEE examination 
are negative, another TEE study is warranted within 7 to 10 days.
334 
TEE also has become the procedure of choice for the detection of 
perivalvular extension of infection in patients with IE.335,336 Daniel and 
colleagues336 reported a diagnostic sensitivity of 87% and a specificity 
of 95% for TEE in the detection of IE-related abscess, compared with 28% and 99% for TTE. Other investigations have shown TEE to be superior in the diagnosis of valvular perforation,
337 pacemaker IE,338 
eustachian valve IE,339 IE in the elderly,340 and other presentations. TEE 
should be performed (unless contraindicated, as by significant esophageal disease) in all IE patients with a complicated course if perivalvular extension is suspected. MRI also seems promising for the detection of examined with special fungal stains and culture. Identification of the fungus by either technique is diagnostic of fungal IE even if blood cultures are sterile.
Echocardiography
The use of echocardiography in the diagnosis of IE first was reported in 1973.
309 The use of two-dimensional (2D), cross-sectional, real-time 
techniques improved the diagnostic accuracy over M-mode methods.310 
The characteristic finding is a shaggy, dense band of irregular echoes in a nonuniform distribution on one or more leaflets, with full unre -
stricted motion of the valve. The smallest vegetation detected was 
approximately 2  mm, b ut the acoustic impedance of the mass relative 
to the surrounding structures is a more important factor than size in identifying the vegetation. If the vegetation is calcified (which may occur early and independent of the healing process), the sensitivity of echocardiography may be increased. Echocardiography has localized vegetations correctly in culture-negative cases. Echocardiography may 
be of special value in detection of the large, friable vegetations charac -
teristic of fungal IE. Use of M-mode or 2D transthoracic techniques 
with prosthetic heart valves has been disappointing, however, because of the difficulty in resolution around the prosthetic device.
Many reports
311 have evaluated the role of transthoracic echocar -
diography (TTE) in the diagnosis and management of suspected IE and have been summarized in cogent analyses.
312 It seems from most 
analyses that TTE should be performed in all patients in whom IE seems to be a reasonable diagnosis. In contrast, TTE is not an appropri -
ate screening test in the evaluation of febrile patients in whom IE is unlikely on clinical grounds or in bacteremic patients with organisms 
that rarely cause IE (e.g., E. coli ), particularly if there is another obvious 
focus to explain the clinical syndrome; TTE may be overused in such 
low-risk situations.
313 TTE may be technically inadequate in 20% of 
adult patients owing to obesity, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or chest wall deformities. These studies also suggest the following: (1) TTE has variable sensitivity for the detection of vegetations ( <50% 
to >90% positive), indicating that a negative study does not exclude 
IE; (2) the sensitivity of TTE for detecting vegetations is highest in right-sided IE, because the tricuspid and pulmonic valves lie relatively close to the chest wall; (3) false-positive results are extremely rare; (4) only technically adequate studies are of value, a characteristic that depends on examiner experience; (5) echocardiography is extremely valuable in assessing local complications of IE, especially surrounding the aortic valve, although the sensitivity for detecting these complications is relatively low for TTE (see later discussion); and (6) patients with a “vegetation” identified with echocardiography are at an increased risk 
for subsequent systemic emboli, CHF , need for emergency surgery, and 
death, especially with aortic valve involvement. This apparent influence on prognosis has hastened earlier surgery in some cases,
314 but this point is  
controversial.315
Positive findings on the echocardiogram in a patient with IE should 
serve as adjunctive evidence, together with clinical parameters, in favor of surgical intervention. In one analysis from the Mayo Clinic,
316 emboli 
were not statistically more common in patients with left-sided native valve IE and echocardiographically documented vegetations within 72 hours after beginning antimicrobial therapy than in patients without 
vegetations visualized by transthoracic techniques. The occurrence of 
emboli was correlated positively with the infecting microorganism, being more common in IE due to viridans streptococci than in IE due to S. 
aureus. Most studies have suggested that mitral valve vegetations (particularly vegetations attached to the anterior leaflet), regardless of size, are associated with higher rates of embolization (25%) than are aortic valve vegetations (10%). This association implicates the mechanical effects of abrupt mitral valve leaflet excursions, occurring twice per heartbeat, in enhancing the embolic potential of vegetations.
317 Visualiza -
tion of vegetations by echocardiography is not sufficient to prompt early surgery.
318 Serial echocardiograms often reveal the persistence of vegeta -
tions after successful therapy, but sequential studies may be useful in the timing of surgical intervention. Although the finding is still con -
troversial, larger vegetation size has been associated with an increased risk for cerebral emboli. One large meta-analysis incorporating data 
from 10 studies involving 738 patients showed that large vegetation 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1082Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
these complications,335 but clinical experience with this modality is 
limited.
TEE is not a screening or noninvasive procedure but is generally 
safe341 in experienced hands, and it may alter management in selected 
patients with proved or suspected IE. Two cost-effectiveness analyses 
favored the increased use of TEE.342,343 Using outcomes among a cohort 
of consecutive patients with intravascular catheter–associated S. aureus  
bacteremia (SAB), Rosen and colleagues343 found that TEE was a cost-
effective method of defining the duration of antibiotic therapy (2 weeks vs. 4 weeks), compared with empirical courses of either 2 weeks or 4 weeks. Similarly, a decision analysis by Heidenreich and coworkers
342 
found TEE to be more cost-effective than TTE among patients with a high pretest probability of endocarditis (defined as 4%–60%).
In an effort to identify a subset of patients with suspected native 
valve IE who may not require TEE, one study compared a standard 
definition of a negative TTE (no vegetation present) with a strict definition 
(at least moderate ultrasound quality, normal cardiac anatomy, no valvular stenosis, at most trivial valvular regurgitation, at most mild simple pericardial effusion, absence of implanted hardware or central venous catheter, and no evidence of vegetation). In a retrospective analysis of 790 TTE/TEE pairs, 104 (13.2%) met strict negative criteria. Use of the strict definition improved sensitivity (from 43% to 98%) and negative predictive value (from 87% to 97%), at the expense of specificity (from 90% to 16%) and positive predictive value (from 53% to 22%).
344
In conjunction with the physical examination, phonocardiography, 
and electrocardiography, the echocardiogram may play an important role in assessing the severity of acute aortic insufficiency in cases of active IE.
345 In this setting, classic signs, such as a wide pulse pressure and 
bounding pulses, often are absent; however, there is usually a reduction in intensity of the first heart sound, and Austin Flint murmurs may be audible. Findings on the chest radiograph and electrocardiogram may be normal. The degree of mitral valve preclosure (as determined 
with echocardiography) correlates with the acute elevation in left  
ventricular end-diastolic pressure. If this event occurs before the Q wave on the electrocardiogram, urgent surgical intervention is  
recommended.
Cardiac Catheterization
Cardiac catheterization provides valuable hemodynamic and anatomic information in patients with IE when surgical intervention is being considered.
263 If properly performed, the procedure is safe, as was shown 
by the lack of postcatheterization emboli or hemodynamic deterioration in 35 consecutive patients in one series.
346
Diagnostic Criteria
Diagnostic criteria for IE (the Beth Israel criteria) were published in 1982 by von Reyn and colleagues,
3 but these criteria did not use 
echocardiographic findings in the case definitions, despite major improvements in echocardiographic technology (see previous discussion). In addition, the isolation of a “typical” IE pathogen from blood cultures was not considered in the Beth Israel definitions. Many presumptive 
cases of IE were classified as not definite  but probable.  With improved 
methodology and recognition of the central role of echocardiography 
in the evaluation of suspected IE, new case definitions and diagnostic criteria (the Duke criteria), initially were proposed in 1994.
347 Modifica -
tions to the Duke criteria were published in 2000348 and are now used 
widely (Table 80.4). The Duke criteria (modeled after the Jones criteria for diagnosing rheumatic fever
349) improve on the Beth Israel criteria 
by including echocardiographic demonstration of vegetations or paravalvular complications of IE and the isolation of typical IE pathogens from blood cultures as “major criteria” for the clinically definite catego -
rization of IE. In addition, the presence of recent injection drug use is 
included in the Duke criteria as a “minor criterion” for diagnosis of IE, 
recognizing the increased risk for IE in this patient population. Direct comparisons of the Duke and Beth Israel criteria have been done in 11 major studies, including almost 1400 patients. Patient populations from diverse geographic areas with presumed IE have been studied, including young, middle-aged, and elderly adults; pediatric patients; patients with native or prosthetic valve involvement; and patients with and without a history of injection drug use. These studies confirmed the increased TABLE 80.4  Definition of Infective Endocar ditis 
(IE) According to Modified Duke Criteria
Definite Infective Endocarditis
Pathologic Criteria
•	 Microorganisms 	demonstrated 	by 	cultur e 	or 	histologic 	examination 	of 	a 	
vegetation, a vegetation that has embolized, or an intracardiac abscess 
specimen; or
•	 Pathologic 	lesions; 	vegetation 	or 	intracar diac 	abscess 	confirmed 	by 	histologic 	
examination showing active endocarditis
Clinical Criteria (See Below for Definitions)
•	 2	major 	criteria; 	or
•	 1	major 	criterion 	and 	3 	minor 	criteria; 	or
•	 5	minor 	criteria
Possible Infective Endocarditis
•	 1	major 	criterion 	and 	1 	minor 	criterion; 	or
•	 3	minor 	criteria
Rejected
•	 Firm	alter nate 	diagnosis 	explaining 	evidence 	of 	IE; 	or
•	 Resolution 	of 	IE 	syndr ome 	with 	antibiotic 	therapy 	for 	≤4 days; or
•	 No	pathologic 	evidence 	of 	IE 	at 	surgery 	or 	autopsy , 	with 	antibiotic 	therapy 	
for ≤4 days; or
•	 Does	not 	meet 	criteria 	for 	possible 	IE, 	as 	above
Major Criteria
Blood Culture Positive for Infective Endocarditis
•	 Typical 	micr oorganisms 	consistent 	with 	IE 	fr om 	two 	separate 	blood 	cultur es: 	
viridans streptococci, Streptococcus bovis, HACEK group, Staphylococcus 
aureus; or
•	 Community-acquired 	enter ococci, 	in 	the 	absence 	of 	a 	primary 	focus; 	or
•	 Microorganisms 	consistent 	with 	IE 	fr om 	persistently 	positive 	blood 	cultur es, 	
defined as follows:
•	 At	least 	two 	positive 	cultur es 	of 	blood 	samples 	drawn 	>12 h apart; or
•	 All	of	thr ee 	or 	a 	majority 	of 	four 	or 	mor e 	separate 	cultur es 	of 	blood 	
(with first and last sample drawn at least 1  h apart)
•	 Single 	positive 	blood 	cultur e 	for 	Coxiella burnetii or antiphase I IgG 
antibody titer >1 : 800
Evidence of Endocardial Involvement
•	 Echocardiogram 	positive 	for 	IE 	(TEE 	r ecommended 	in 	patients 	with 	
prosthetic valves, rated at least “possible IE” by clinical criteria, or 
complicated IE [paravalvular abscess]; TTE as first test in other patients), 
defined as follows:
•	 Oscillating 	intracar diac 	mass 	on 	valve 	or 	supporting 	structur es, 	in 	the 	
path of regurgitant jets, or on implanted material in the absence of an 
alternative anatomic explanation; or
•	 Abscess; 	or
•	 New	partial 	dehiscence 	of 	pr osthetic 	valve
•	 New	valvular 	r egurgitation 	(worsening 	or 	changing 	of 	pr eexisting 	murmur 	
not sufficient)
Minor Criteria
•	 Predisposition, 	pr edisposing 	heart 	condition 	or 	injection 	drug 	use
•	 Fever,	temperatur e 	>38°C (100.4°F)
•	 Vascular 	phenomena, 	major 	arterial 	emboli, 	septic 	pulmonary 	infar cts, 	
mycotic aneurysm, intracranial hemorrhage, conjunctival hemorrhages, and Janeway lesions
•	 Immunologic 	phenomena: 	glomerulonephritis, 	Osler 	nodes, 	Roth 	spots, 	and 	
rheumatoid factor
•	 Microbiologic 	evidence: 	positive 	blood 	cultur e 	but 	does 	not 	meet 	a 	major 	
criterion as noted abovea or serologic evidence of active infection with 
organism consistent with IE
•	 Echocardiographic 	minor 	criteria 	eliminated
aExcludes single positive cultures for coagulase-negative staphylococci and 
organisms that do not cause endocarditis.
HACEK, Haemophilus, Aggregatibacter  (formerly Actinobacillus), Cardiobacterium, 
Eikenella, Kingella ; IgG, immunoglobulin G; TEE, transesophageal 
echocardiography; TTE, transthoracic echocardiography.
Modified from Li JS, Sexton DJ, Mick N, et  al. Proposed modifications to the  
Duke criteria for the diagnosis of infective endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis. 
2000;30:633.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1083Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections gallolyticus ), S. mutans, and S. mitior.81 In a series of 317 cases of 
streptococcal IE, the breakdown was as follows: α-hemolytic, 45%; 
nonhemolytic, non–group D, 21%; group D, 25%; pyogenic (groups A, 
B, C, G), 5%; miscellaneous, 3%; and aerococci, 1.3%. The α-hemolytic 
strains included S. sanguinis  (16.4% of all cases of IE), non–dextran-
producing S. mitior (13.2%), dextran-positive S. mitior (7.3%), and an 
unclassified group (7.9%). Some isolates of S. sanguinis,  formerly called 
Streptococcus  SBE, are in Lancefield group H; however, most are nontype -
able. S. mutans (14.2%), S. anginosus  (5.4%), and S. salivarius  (1.3%) 
are the nonhemolytic, non–group D strains. Group D organisms include the enterococci (8%) and S. bovis  (17%). In another analysis,
352 viridans 
streptococci caused 58% of cases of IE at The New Y ork Hospital from 1970 to 1978. The various responsible species were as follows: S. mitior,  
31%; S. bovis, 27%; S. sanguinis,  24%; S. mutans, 7%; vitamin B
6–
dependent S. mitior, 5%; S. anginosus, 4%; and others, 2%—all of which 
were slightly different from the species reported from the United Kingdom. By contrast, group D streptococci constituted 25% of all cases of IE within six regions of France representing 16 million inhabitants.
353 
Among 1242 consecutive episodes of IE from 1996 to 2013 in three Spanish centers, 294 were streptococcal, of which 47 were S. bovis  (3.8%), 
134 viridans-group streptococci (10.8%), and 113 enterococcal (9.1%).
354
There seems to be no correlation between clinical outcome and the 
species involved,268 with the exception of nutritionally deficient strains 
(see later discussion). The relative role of each species overall is prob -
lematic, however, because species designations of identical strains among laboratories often are disparate, and most blood and cerebrospinal fluid isolates of viridans or nonhemolytic streptococci are not from patients 
with IE.
355
S. mutans, a normal member of the oral microbiota, is microaerophilic, 
pleomorphic, and fastidious. Two-thirds of S. mutans  strains hydrolyze 
bile-esculin,356 a test used to identify group D organisms, and may be 
confused with enterococci. Other characteristics of S. mutans include 
the absence of group D antigen (some strains are positive for group E), production of acid from mannitol, failure to hydrolyze hippurate, and formation of gelatinous deposits (dextran) in media containing 5% 
sucrose. This organism may be difficult to isolate and to identify. It 
often requires more than 3 days for primary isolation, grows best on horse blood agar in 5% to 10% carbon dioxide on subculture, and is pleomorphic, resulting in confusion with diphtheroids. S. mutans first 
was isolated in 1924 by Clark from dental caries lesions of humans and first was reported in 1928 to cause IE. The central importance of this organism in dental caries has been amply documented.
S. bovis is a normal inhabitant of the gastrointestinal tract of humans 
and many animal species. The genetic diversity among organisms histori -
cally classified as S. bovis has been clarified to include biotypes I and 
II, S. salivarius, and Streptococcus macedonicus.
357 In addition, S. bovis 
has been subdivided further into S. gallolyticus subsp. gallolyticus, S. gallolyticus  subsp. pasteurianus, and Streptococcus infantarius.
358 It is 
important to differentiate S. bovis from the other members of group 
D (the enterococci), because the respective therapeutic approaches to 
infection with these organisms are different (see later discussion). Group 
D organisms are identified presumptively by bile-esculin hydrolysis.359,360 
Only the enterococci ( E. faecalis  and its varieties, Enterococcus zymogenes  
and Enterococcus liquefaciens; Enterococcus faecium; and Enterococcus 
durans ) grow in 6.5% sodium chloride, whereas S. bovis and Strep -
tococcus equinus  (a rare cause of IE) are salt sensitive. Seventy-five 
percent of strains of S. bovis are heat tolerant, and they may grow 
and produce acid in E. faecalis  broth; these methods are unreliable for 
separation.361 Arginine hydrolysis by enterococci and starch hydrolysis 
by S. bovis are other means for reliable separation. The association 
of bacteremia due to S. bovis with carcinoma of the colon and other 
lesions of the gastrointestinal tract suggests that a colonoscopy should be performed if this organism is isolated from blood cultures.
362,363 Interest -
ing to note, this association appears to be higher with S. gallolyticus  
subsp. gallolyticus.358
Enterococci
Enterococci are normal inhabitants of the gastrointestinal tract and occasionally of the anterior urethra. All enterococci are in Lancefield group D; they are catalase negative and nonmotile; and they may exhibit sensitivity of the Duke criteria in the clinical diagnosis of IE and the 
diagnostic usefulness of echocardiography in the identification of 
clinically definite cases.
334 Modifications of the Duke criteria, to provide 
a floor for diagnosis of putative cases as possible IE, have added more specificity to the schema.
348
Etiologic Agents
Streptococci
A plethora of microorganisms have been implicated in IE, but streptococci 
and staphylococci account for 80% to 90% of the cases in which an identification is made. The most common etiologic agents are listed in Table 80.5. Streptococci were once the most common overall cause of IE and continue to be the predominant etiologic agents in the developing 
world.
19,20 Staphylococci have assumed increasing importance among 
isolates in community hospitals in recent years, however (see later 
discussion).29,350 Viridans streptococci remain the major cause of IE in 
children. The disease usually runs a subacute course with multiple nonspecific symptoms (see Table 80.3). More than 80% of these patients have underlying heart disease. Viridans streptococci are the most commonly isolated pathogens in IE cases associated with mitral valve 
prolapse,
351 and IE in young women with isolated mitral valve involvement 
is almost universally caused by viridans streptococci. Approximately 
20% of cases that come to the physician’s attention are seen because of embolic phenomena. With modern medical and surgical management, the cure rate should exceed 90% in nonenterococcal streptococcal IE, 
although complications may ensue in more than 30% of cases.
The nomenclature of the streptococci is confusing, and the terminol -
ogy varies among authors. As detailed in Chapter 202, current names 
for the α -hemolytic streptococci other than S. pneumoniae  (i.e., viridans 
streptococci) causing IE are S. mitis, S. sanguinis, S. mutans, Streptococcus 
salivarius, Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp., and some isolates of the 
Streptococcus intermedius  group ( S. intermedius  and Streptococcus 
anginosus ). Streptococcus morbillorum  now is classified as Gemella 
morbillorum ; Streptococcus mitior  now is considered to be a “genospecies” 
of S. mitis.  The name S. mitior  is embedded so deeply in the endocarditis 
literature, however, that it is retained in the discussion that follows. Group D streptococci are sometimes α-hemolytic, depending on the conditions and the isolate, but are not included among the viridans streptococci. Streptococci of the viridans group (not a true species) are α-hemolytic and usually nontypeable by the Lancefield system.
The streptococci most commonly isolated from cases of IE are S. 
sanguinis, Streptococcus bovis
 (we will continue to use this name here, 
although the human strains have been reclassified as Streptococcus 
TABLE 80.5  Etiologic Agents in 1779 Patients 
With Definite Infective Endocarditis
AGENT CASES (%)
Staphylococcus
 Staphylococcus aureus 31.6
 Coagulase-negative staphylococci 10.5
Streptococcus
 V iridans-group streptococci 18.0
 Streptococcus bovis 6.5
 Other str eptococci 5.1
Enterococci 10.6
HACEK group 1.7
Non-HACEK gram-negative bacteria 2.1
Fungi 1.8
Polymicrobial 1.3
Other species 3.1
Culture negative 8.1
HACEK, Haemophilus, Aggregatibacter  (formerly Actinobacillus), Cardiobacterium, 
Eikenella, Kingella .
Data from Fowler VG Jr, Miro JM, Hoen B, et  al. Staphylococcus aureus 
endocarditis throughout the world: a consequence of medical progress. The 
International Collaboration on Endocarditis Prospective Cohort Study. JAMA. 
2005;293:3012.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1084Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
be responsible for the large, friable vegetations and frequent major  
systemic emboli.
A similar clinical picture with a destructive process, left-sided 
predominance, frequent complications, and high mortality (approximately 
40%) has been observed in the 47 cases of group G streptococcal IE 
reported in the literature.389,390 Most human infections with Streptococcus 
suis have presented as meningitis (with a striking predilection to cause 
deafness as a sequela) and sepsis with accompanying arthritis or 
endophthalmitis, but two cases of IE due to serotype 2 have been described.
391 A history of pig or raw pork contact was a feature in both 
patients. Several cases of IE due to Streptococcus canis,  a zoonotic group 
G streptococcal species associated with dogs, have also been reported.392
Group A streptococci remain a rare cause of IE associated with 
a high complication rate in adults and children.393 S. anginosus  is a 
rare cause of IE (6%–7% of cases), but this species is unusual among these streptococci in that it has a predilection to cause suppurative complications, including brain, liver, perinephric, and other abscesses and cholangitis, peritonitis, and empyema.
394–396 Some of these complica -
tions occur during IE due to this organism and may require surgical  
attention.
Approximately 50% of S. anginosus  strains carry the group F antigen.395 
IE caused by S. anginosus  may result in virulent intracardiac complications 
(e.g., myocardial abscess, purulent pericarditis) more typical of S. aureus  
infections.397
Gemella
IE due to Gemella haemolysans  also has been reported.398 This organism 
now is placed in genus V of the family Streptococcaceae. Gemella  should 
be suspected if blood cultures reveal a variable morphology (with some organisms resembling diphtheroids) and an indeterminate Gram stain. The antimicrobial susceptibility of Gemella  spp. is similar to that of the 
viridans streptococci. Although misidentification in the microbiology laboratory is presumably common, six cases of IE due to G. haemolysans  
have been reported since 1982.
399
Aerococci
Aerococci are uropathogens frequently misidentified as streptococci, staphylococci, or enterococci. With improved microbiologic techniques, IE due to Aerococcus urinae  and Aerococcus sanguinicola , primarily 
occurring in older patients with underlying urinary tract diseases, has been described.
400,401
Staphylococci
S. aureus  is now the most common cause of IE in most of the industrial -
ized world.10 Rates of S. aureus IE are rising in the United States.350 A 
primary cause of this fundamental shift in the microbiology of IE relates to the growing importance of health care contact as a risk factor for bacteremia and, increasingly, IE.
10,17 This species is the causative agent 
in most cases of acute IE, but only 10% to 12% of patients with SAB have IE.
402,403 The organism may attack normal heart valves (defined as 
those having no clinically detectable cardiac disease) in approximately 
one-third of the patients. The course frequently is fulminant when it 
involves the mitral or aortic valve, with widespread metastatic infection, 
and results in death in approximately 40% of patients.404–407
As noted, the proportion of cases of IE due to S. aureus seems to 
be increasing at both community and university hospitals.14,15,29,365,408 
Traditionally, most cases of S. aureus  IE were believed to be community 
acquired.409 In the late 1990s, however, a small report of S. aureus IE 
from Duke University suggested a demographic shift among patients 
with this infection.410 Over half of cases were associated with health 
care contact, and many were associated with intravascular catheters. 
These observations were validated in a multinational cohort of more than 1700 patients with definite IE. S. aureus was the most common 
cause of IE, accounting for 32% of all cases. Among the S. aureus cases, 
39% were presumed to be health care associated, and in 28% the presumed source was an intravascular device.
10 These statistics emphasize that 
the finding of health care–associated SAB should prompt a complete evaluation for underlying IE.
Myocardial abscesses (with conduction disturbances), purulent 
pericarditis, and valve ring abscesses are more common in staphylococcal α-, β-, or γ-hemolysis on blood agar. They grow well in sodium azide 
(SF [Streptococcus faecalis]  broth), 40% bile, 6.5% sodium chloride, and 
0.1% methylene blue and can survive at 56°C for 30 minutes or at a pH of 9.6.
364 Enterococci are responsible for 5% to 18% of the cases of 
IE, and the incidence seems to be increasing.7,365,366,367 The disease usually 
runs a subacute course and affects older men (mean age, 59 years) after genitourinary manipulation or younger women (mean age, 37 years) after obstetric procedures. The mean duration of nonspecific symptoms, such as malaise, fatigue, anorexia, and weight loss, was 140 days in one 
review. More than 40% of the patients have no underlying heart disease, 
although more than 95% develop a heart murmur during the course of the illness. Classic peripheral manifestations are uncommon ( <25% 
of the cases). Bacteriuria with enterococci is a helpful diagnostic clue and was found in 4 of 15 patients in one study.
364 Cure is difficult because 
of the intrinsic resistance to many antibiotics, and a high mortality rate persists in this disease. With the increasing use of third-generation cephalosporins, which are relatively inactive against enterococci in vitro, and other contributing factors (e.g., use of indwelling urinary catheters), 
an alarming increase in enterococcal bacteremias has been documented 
during the past 2 decades.
367–369 Most enterococcal bacteremias are health 
care associated, are often polymicrobial (42% in one large series370), 
and are associated with serious underlying disorders. Factors that suggest IE in patients with enterococcal bacteremia include (1) community acquisition, (2) preexistent valvular heart disease, (3) cryptogenic source, and (4) absence of polymicrobial bacteremia.
370 Antibiotic usage patterns, 
the aging of the population, and more invasive procedures in hospitalized adults all portend a continued increase in serious enterococcal infections, including IE, in the future.
Streptococcus pneumoniae
Before 1945, S. pneumoniae  was responsible for approximately 10% of 
the cases of IE, but the prevalence has decreased to approximately 1% to 3% currently.
371 The course usually is fulminant and often (in 
approximately one-third of cases) is associated with perivalvular abscess formation or pericarditis or both. Left-sided involvement is the rule, and there is a predilection for the aortic valve (approximately 70% of cases). Many patients with pneumococcal IE are alcoholics (approximately 
40%), and concurrent meningitis is present in about 70% of cases.
371–373 
The overall mortality rate is approximately 50% (60%–65% in children374), 
with death usually caused by rapid valvular destruction and hemodynamic 
compromise,375 although indolent presentations of pneumococcal IE 
with a favorable outcome have been described.376
Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp. can cause difficulties in isolation 
and were implicated in 1.5% of all IE cases at one Spanish medical center over a 15-year period.
377 The organisms do not grow on subculture 
unless l-cysteine or pyridoxal vitamin B 6 is provided. IE due to nutrition -
ally deficient streptococci is almost always indolent in onset and associated with preexisting heart disease.
378 Therapy is difficult, because systemic 
embolization, relapse, and death are common (occurring in 17%–27% of cases). A closely related species, S. mitis, although not nutritionally 
deficient, also causes serious infections, including IE, in adults
379 and 
has emerged as an important causative agent of IE among drug addicts in some areas (e.g., New Y ork City
380).
β-Hemolytic Streptococci
Group B streptococci (Streptococcus agalactiae)  are normal inhabitants 
of the mouth, vagina, and anterior urethra in 5% to 12% of the general population. In 149 patients with group B streptococcal infections, the 
serotypes isolated were Ia in 46%, II in 22%, and III in 11%.381 Although 
the organism has long been recognized as a cause of bacteremia and meningitis in neonates, serious S. agalactiae infections in adults also have been emphasized.
382,383 Risk factors for group B streptococcal 
sepsis and IE in adults include diabetes mellitus, carcinoma, alcohol -
ism, hepatic failure, elective abortion, and injection drug use.383–385 
As with S. bovis, occasional cases occur in association with villous 
adenomas of the colon.386 More than 90 cases of group B streptococcal 
IE have been reported.384–388 Underlying heart disease is common, the 
male-to-female ratio is 1.4  :  1, t he mean age is approximately 54 years, 
and left-sided involvement predominates. The overall mortality rate is almost 50%. The organism does not produce fibrinolysin, which may 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1085Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections (1.8%) had endocarditis due to non-HACEK gram-negative bacilli.430 
Traditionally, injection drug use has been regarded as the primary risk 
factor for enteric gram-negative bacterial endocarditis413,431–436 and injec-
tion drug users remain a high-risk population in specific locations.437 
However, experience from the large, contemporary, and multinational ICE-PCS demonstrated that health care contact, and not injection drug use, was the most common risk factor for enteric gram-negative IE. In this definitive study, more than half of the patients with IE due 
to non-HACEK gram-negative bacilli had health care–associated 
infection, whereas injection drug use was rare (4%). Prosthetic valves and implanted endovascular devices were frequently associated with non-HACEK gram-negative bacillary IE. Patients with cirrhosis
438 also 
seem to be at an increased risk for the development of gram-negative  
bacillary IE.
The duration of illness is usually less than 6 weeks, most patients 
are 40 to 50 years old, and men and women are affected equally.439 In 
gram-negative septicemia, the bloodstream usually is cleared by therapy with appropriate antimicrobial agents. In contrast, in IE due to gram-negative bacilli, persistent bacteremia is common, even with high levels of antimicrobial activity. CHF is common, and the prognosis is poor. 
Older series reported a mortality rate of 60% to 83% for IE due to 
gram-negative bacilli.
439 However, contemporary experience indicates 
a substantially better prognosis, with in-hospital mortality rates of 24%.430 
This improved mortality rate is perhaps due in part to high rates of cardiac surgery (51%).
A heart murmur noted during an episode of gram-negative sepsis 
with unexplained anemia or the persistence of positive blood cultures 
despite adequate levels of antibiotics may indicate IE. In the early 
postoperative period after prosthetic valve replacement, sustained gram-negative bacteremia does not imply IE,
440 and other foci of infection 
(e.g., sternal wound, pneumonia, urinary tract, intravenous catheters) should be sought carefully.
Traditionally, Salmonella  spp. were important causes of gram-negative 
bacterial IE among the Enterobacteriaceae. These organisms have an 
affinity for abnormal cardiac valves, usually on the left side of the 
heart.
439,441 Although many serotypes have been implicated, most cases 
are caused by Salmonella enterica  serotypes Choleraesuis, Typhimurium, 
and Enteritidis. Valvular perforation or destruction, atrial thrombi, myocarditis, and pericarditis are common, and the outlook is grave. Salmonellae also may produce endarteritis in aneurysms of major vessels 
(see later discussion).
Although historically regarded as a rare cause of endocarditis because 
of its poor endothelial cell–binding capacity, E. coli now appears to 
predominate among the Enterobacteriaceae as a cause of IE.
430 This 
may reflect the growing importance of health care contact as a risk 
factor for enteric gram-negative IE. Other species of Enterobacteriaceae can also rarely cause IE.
439 In the 1970s, a total of 36 cases of IE due to 
S. marcescens  were reported from San Francisco; 32 (88%) were associated 
with injection drug use.431,432 The cases were characterized by large 
vegetations with near-total occlusion of the valve orifice in the absence of significant underlying valvular destruction. The overall mortality 
rate ranged from 68% to 73%, because a cure of left-sided IE caused by a member of the Enterobacteriaceae is uncommon with medical 
therapy alone. Valve replacement after 7 to 10 days of antibiotics was recommended for these difficult infections.
432 Approximately 12 cases 
of IE due to Campylobacter fetus  have been reported since the first case 
in 1955.442
The first case of Pseudomonas-induced IE was recognized in 1899; 
more than 200 cases have been reported since then.256,413,433–438 Although 
historical reports of pseudomonal IE (95%) were primarily associated with injection drug use,
413,433–436 more contemporary reports confirm 
health care contact as the current primary risk factor.17,443 The male-
to-female ratio is 2.5  :  1, a nd the mean age is 30 years. Major embolic 
phenomena, inability to sterilize valves, neurologic complications (53%), ring and annular abscesses, splenic abscesses, bacteremic relapses, and rapidly progressive CHF are common. Ecthyma gangrenosum, the necrotizing cutaneous lesion characteristic of Pseudomonas  bacteremia, 
occasionally has been noted, especially in cases of IE due to Pseudomonas 
(Burkholderia) cepacia.
444 The disease carries the highest mortality if 
the patient is older than 30 years (73%, compared with 33% in younger endocarditis than in other forms of IE. Peripheral foci of suppuration (e.g., lung, brain, spleen, kidney) are common and affect more than 
40% of these patients.
404,407,408 These extravascular sites of involvement 
may offer clues to an early diagnosis, especially in narcotic addicts.261,262 
This disease often is clinically unsuspected in older patients, and mortality 
rates frequently exceed 50% in patients older than 50 years, especially when the infection is nosocomially acquired.
408,411 The rare entity of 
neonatal IE also is often caused by S. aureus412; survival is unusual.
IE in narcotic addicts usually is due to S. aureus, but the disease 
tends to be less severe, with mortality rates of 2% to 6%.261,262 The lower 
mortality is related directly to the preponderance of cases affecting the tricuspid valve, a syndrome that responds to antimicrobial therapy in most cases.
409 The emergence of MRSA in addicts with staphylococcal 
IE was first documented in the Detroit area in the mid-1980s.256,413 
Among 180 bacteremic addicts admitted to the Detroit Medical Center in 1 year, 24% grew MRSA and 41% of the patients overall had IE. Previous hospitalizations, long-term addiction (particularly in men), and nonprescribed antibiotic use were predictive of MRSA 
acquisition (odds ratio, 8.6  :  1).413 Injection of newer psychoactive 
substances, including synthetic cannabinoids and synthetic cathinones, was associated with higher incidence of S. aureus IE and cavitating pulmonary lesions compared with findings in those who injected only  
opiates.
414
Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci
Although S. epidermidis  was traditionally an important agent in prosthetic 
valve IE (see Chapter 81) and in infants with IE related to umbilical venous catheters in neonatal intensive care units,
415 studies from the 
ICE-PCS have confirmed that it also is an emerging cause of native valve IE. Approximately 8% of patients with definite native valve IE and no history of injection drug use were infected with coagulase-negative staphylococci.
416,417 Health care contact was the primary risk factor for 
infection. Many of these patients also had preexisting valvular disease. Although surgical treatment occurred more frequently in patients infected with coagulase-negative staphylococci than in those with S. aureus 
infection, mortality in these two groups was similar.
416 Data from a 
Caenorhabditis elegans model support the possibility that S. epidermidis  
isolates from patients with native valve IE constitute a more virulent subset within this species.
418
Separation of IE from uncomplicated bacteremia due to S. epidermidis  
(implicated in approximately 50% of cases of native valve coagulase-negative staphylococcal IE) can be difficult. IgG antibodies to a novel 30-kDa cloned protein, termed staphylococcal secretory antigen,  were 
demonstrated in patients with S. epidermidis  IE but not in patients with 
uncomplicated S. epidermidis  bacteremia or IE due to other pathogens.
419 
Extensive laboratory evaluation420 revealed that most S. epidermidis  IE 
isolates are distinct and do not represent common-source outbreaks, despite the frequent shift to a small-colony variant by many strains in vivo
421 and the description of polyclonal S. epidermidis  IE.422
Rare cases of IE due to other coagulase-negative staphylococci (e.g., 
Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Staphylococcus capitis ) have been 
reported.423,424 A growing number of reports of IE caused by the coagulase-
negative Staphylococcus lugdunensis have been published.425–428 This 
organism tends to cause a substantially more virulent form of IE than coagulase-negative staphylococci, with high morbidity rates despite almost uniform in vitro susceptibilities to most antibiotics, including penicillins and cephalosporins.
425–428 These strains frequently are mis -
identified as S. aureus because they often are yellow pigmented and yield complete hemolysis on blood agars. Their in vitro hemolytic capacities relate to the production of synergistic hemolysin. Differentia -
tion of S. lugdunensis from S. aureus in the microbiology laboratory 
depends on the tube coagulase test and the ability of the former strains 
to cause ornithine decarboxylation. Distinguishing S. lugdunensis  from 
other coagulase-negative staphylococci can be difficult with commercial identification schemata.
429
Gram-Negative Bacilli
Gram-negative aerobic bacilli now cause approximately 2% of cases of IE. Among more than 2700 patients with definite endocarditis prospectively enrolled into ICE-PCS from 60 centers in 28 countries, 49 patients 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1086Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
Gram-Positive Bacilli
IE due to various species of corynebacteria (diphtheroids) is uncommon 
and usually occurs on damaged or prosthetic valves,465 although native 
valve infections (e.g., Arcanobacterium [Corynebacterium] haemolyticum  
in a drug addict) are reported rarely. About 19 cases of IE due to Corynebacterium pseudodiphtheriticum  (previously Corynebacterium 
hofmannii ) have been reported; native valves were involved in approxi -
mately half of these cases.
466 Corynebacterium xerosis  is a very rare cause 
of native valve IE. Nontoxigenic Corynebacterium diphtheriae  IE has 
been reported in more than 40 patients. A cluster of 7 cases in 1 year from New South Wales, Australia,
467 emphasized the aggressive nature 
of the infection, including major vascular complications, the frequent occurrence of septic arthritis (in four of seven patients), and involvement of native valves. Injection drug use also is a predisposing factor.
The isolation of Listeria monocytogenes has been reported in 44 
cases of IE.
468,469 Most cases of IE due to Listeria  spp. have occurred 
in patients without any underlying defect in host defenses, although preexisting heart disease is present in approximately 50%. The mean age in the reported series was 51 years, and the overall mortality  
rate was 48%.
469
Propionibacterium ( now called Cutibacterium)  species are typically 
part of normal skin microbiota, but have been implicated in approximately 70 cases of IE, generally involving prosthetic material.
470
Lactobacilli also have been reported to cause a subacute form of IE, 
but these cases are rare (only 41 reported).471,472 Despite an initial response 
to therapy, relapse of this infection is not unusual (approximately 60% of cases). Most cases occur on structurally abnormal native valves after dental manipulation.
472 Therapy with single agents is often unsatisfactory 
because lactobacilli, similar to enterococci, are tolerant to penicillins. Medical cure has been difficult to achieve in the past. These organisms also may require several weeks for isolation on blood culture.
More than 90% of 49 serious infections caused by Erysipelothrix 
rhusiopathiae  were characterized as IE.
473 Occupational or vocational 
animal or fish exposure is a major risk factor, and approximately one-third of patients are alcoholic. Most patients are men. A characteristic ery -
sipeloid skin lesion is present in approximately 40% of cases, and the organism exhibits significant aortic valve tropism (involved in 70% of 
patients).
473 The overall mortality rate is 38%.
Most cases of Bacillus  IE involve the tricuspid valve in narcotic 
addicts, but nonaddicts and prosthetic valve recipients also have been 
affected.474 Rothia dentocariosa  is a rare cause of IE (approximately 20 
cases reported) but has led to significant central nervous system complications.
475
Anaerobic Bacteria
Nonstreptococcal anaerobic bacteria were responsible for 1.3% of all the cases of IE in 1970.
476 Bacteroides fragilis  was the predominant 
pathogen in a review of 67 cases from the literature.477 The following 
organisms were isolated: B. fragilis, 35.8%; Bacteroides oralis,  3%; 
Prevotella melaninogenica (Bacteroides melaninogenicus),  3%; Fusobac -
terium necrophorum,  13.4%; Fusobacterium nucleatum,  9%; Clostridium  
spp., 13.4%; P . acnes,  7.5%; Dialister granuliformans,  1.5%; and unidenti -
fied, 16.4%. More than one-third of the unidentified cases also were believed by the authors to represent B. fragilis. Approximately 25% of 
these cases were polymicrobial, usually mixed with anaerobic or microaerophilic streptococci. The portal of entry for B. fragilis  was 
probably the gastrointestinal tract, whereas B. oralis, P . melaninogenica,  
and fusobacteria originated from the mouth or upper respiratory tract. Two-thirds of the patients were older than 40 years and had preexisting heart disease.
The course usually is subacute except for that with infection due to 
F. necrophorum,  which characteristically produces a more fulminant 
disease. These organisms usually cause extensive valve destruction, CHF , and major systemic emboli (in 60%–70% of the cases). Thromboembolic episodes are especially common in infections caused by B. fragilis, a 
phenomenon that may be related to the heparinase produced by this organism. The mortality rate in cases of anaerobic IE has ranged from 21% to 46%.
477 One series from California noted no deaths among seven 
patients with anaerobic or microaerophilic IE478; these cases constituted 
10.6% of the IE cases seen. This is similar to a 7.7% incidence reported patients), if the duration of illness is less than 5 days (76%, compared with 41% for shorter durations), and if there is left-sided cardiac involve -
ment.
434,436,445 Because of the poor prognosis and frequent complications,256 
early surgery is recommended by many authorities for left-sided pseudomonal IE.
334 In contrast, high-dose regimens of antipseudomonal 
penicillins combined with aminoglycosides have had a salutary effect in many patients with isolated right-sided pseudomonal IE (see “ Anti -
microbial Therapy”). Almost all addicts with P . aeruginosa  IE in more 
recent reports
65,413,435,436 have abused tripelennamine and pentazocine 
(“Ts and blues”).
HACEK Group Bacteria ( Haemophilus, 
Aggregatibacter [Formerly Actinobacillus spp.], 
Cardiobacterium, Eikenella, Kingella )
Haemophilus  spp. historically accounted for 0.8% to 1.3% of all cases 
of IE,446–449 although some have been reclassified into the genus Aggre -
gatibacter. These infections usually run a subacute course and occur in the setting of preexisting valvular disease. Emboli to major peripheral arteries were found in six of seven cases of Haemophilus parainfluenzae  
IE.
446 Major central nervous system complications are relatively 
common.449 Aggregatibacter aphrophilus  produces a similar clinical 
pattern and has been transmitted from dogs to humans. Single cases of IE due to Aggregatibacter segnis  and Haemophilus influenzae  biogroup 
aegyptius  have been reported from Denmark and Israel.
450,451 A closely 
related organism, Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans,  is a rare cause 
of subacute IE (with approximately 35 cases reported) and carries a mortality rate of 34%.
452,453 IE due to Cardiobacterium hominis454 resembles 
the disease caused by Haemophilus  spp.; 26 cases of C. hominis  IE were 
reported by 1983. Only one extravascular infection due to C. hominis  
has been documented (meningitis during IE).
At least 28 cases of Kingella  endocarditis (caused by Kingella kingae , 
25 cases; Kingella denitrificans,  2 cases; and Kingella indologenes,  1 case) 
have been reported.455 Invasive Kingella  infections are increasingly 
recognized in children. Approximately 50% of patients develop complica -
tions, including acute stroke in approximately 25%. A dozen cases of IE due to Eikenella corrodens have been reported; injection drug use 
(especially of amphetamines) was implicated in five patients.
456,457 Dental 
infection or a history of dental procedures may be a feature, and drug users often have “cleaned” the injection site with saliva; E. corrodens is 
a usual habitant of the oropharynx. The disease generally has an indolent course, but presentation may be acute.
457
All of the aforementioned HACEK bacteria can be reliably isolated 
with standard blood culture incubation periods using conventional automated blood culture systems.
280,286 The clinical syndrome produced 
by this group is virtually identical to that observed in subacute IE: large friable vegetations, frequent emboli, development of CHF , and often the eventual need for valve replacement.
458
Other Gram-Negative Bacteria
IE produced by several other gram-negative species has received attention recently. N. gonorrhoeae  was responsible for at least 5% to 10% of the 
cases of IE before the introduction of penicillin but now is implicated rarely. In the older series, half of the patients with gonococcal IE had 
involvement of the right side of the heart and exhibited the characteristic 
double-quotidian fever pattern. Of the cases of gonococcal IE reported since 1949,
459–461 most occurred in young men. Skin manifestations 
consistent with the gonococcal arthritis-dermatitis syndrome or IE have been documented in only 20% of the cases. Most cases of gonococcal IE now follow an indolent course, in contrast to the often fulminant progression in the preantibiotic era. Aortic valve involvement, large 
vegetations seen with TTE, associated valve ring abscesses, CHF , and 
nephritis are common.
461 A high frequency of late complement component 
deficiencies has been observed in patients with gonococcal IE. Sudden hemodynamic deterioration despite appropriate therapy may occur,
459–461 
and the mortality rate is approximately 20%. “Nonpathogenic” Neisseria  
spp.— N. perflava, N. flava, N. pharyngis, N. mucosa, N. sicca, N. flavescens,  
and especially Moraxella (Neisseria) catarrhalis, and Neisseria elongata 
subsp. nitroreducens —now are isolated more frequently in IE than are 
gonococci, but they usually produce infection on abnormal or prosthetic heart valves.
462–464
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1087Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections valvular abnormalities all were less common in patients with Whipple 
IE than in patients with IE due to other pathogens.295
A study from Germany involving heart valves found that T. whipplei  
was the most common cause of culture-negative IE. The study evaluated 1135 heart valves, which were analyzed for bacterial infection by means of conventional culture techniques, PCR amplification of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene, and subsequent sequencing. T. whipplei– positive heart 
valves were confirmed with specific PCR, fluorescence in situ hybridiza-tion, immunohistochemistry, histologic examination, and culture for T. whipplei.  The investigators found that T. whipplei  was the most common 
cause of culture-negative IE, accounting for 6.3% of such cases.
492 
However, other investigators have emphasized the principal role of Bartonella  and C. burnetii  as etiologic agents in culture-negative IE.
493 
Thus the etiology of culture-negative IE may vary significantly by geographic region.
Brucella species
Brucella  spp. continue as important etiologic agents in Spain and in 
Saudi Arabia, where these organisms are responsible for approximately 10% of IE cases.
494 Aggressive medical therapy with valve replacement 
usually is necessary for a cure of Brucella  IE.495
Unusual Bacterial Causes of Infective Endocarditis
Five cases of IE due to Spirillum minus,  a spirochete, have been reported.496 
This organism is distributed widely in nature, especially in fresh or salt water with organic debris. S. minus  is the etiologic agent of rat-bite 
fever (sodoku), but rodent transmission was not documented in the cases of IE. Preexisting heart disease or severe underlying disease (e.g., 
aplastic anemia) was usually present, although one case occurred in an 
otherwise healthy person.
Many other bacteria have been described in cases of IE; however, 
consideration of these organisms separately is beyond the scope of this chapter. These infectious agents include Acinetobacter  (approximately 
20 reported cases; a maculopapular rash on the palms and soles may be present),
497 Actinomyces,498 Alcaligenes, Bordetella, Flavobacterium, 
Micrococcus, Moraxella, Paracolon, Stomatococcus mucilaginosus  (4 cases 
of IE),499 Streptobacillus moniliformis  (16 cases; usually damaged native 
valves are involved),500 Vibrio,  and Yersinia.
Fungi
Fungal IE is rare. Data from ICE-PCS showed that fewer than 1% of more than 2700 patients with definite IE were infected with Candida  
species.
501 Although injection drug use was traditionally an important 
risk factor for candidal IE,305 health care contact has now emerged as 
the primary risk factor for most patients with this infection.302,501 For 
example, 51% of patients from the ICE-PCS data with candidal IE had extensive health care contact as a risk factor, whereas only 12% had a history of injection drug use.
501 Candida parapsilosis  and other non– C. 
albicans  species have been reported to be more common in addicts, 
whereas C. albicans and Aspergillus  spp. tend to predominate in health 
care–associated infections.302,305
The overall cure rate in cases of fungal IE is poor. The poor prognosis 
may be due to (1) large, bulky vegetations; (2) tendency for fungal invasion of the myocardium; (3) widespread systemic septic emboli; (4) poor penetration of antifungal agents into the vegetation
502; (5) low 
toxic-to-therapeutic ratio of the available antifungal agents; and (6) usual lack of fungicidal activity with these compounds. A cure is almost impossible without surgical intervention (see later discussion).
503 The 
role of promising antifungal agents, including caspofungin504 and 
voriconazole,505 in the management of fungal IE remains to be defined.
In a review of 25 cases of Aspergillus- induced IE in which cultures 
were made,506 the organisms isolated were as follows: A. fumigatus, 14; 
A. flavus, 4; A. niger, 3; and A. ustus, A. sydowi, A. terreus,  and A. 
glaucus, 1 each. Only 5 of 34 patients in this series had positive blood cultures, and only one patient survived. A few cases, usually fatal, of Aspergillus  IE after coronary artery bypass surgery have been described; 
A. clavatus  was isolated in 1 case.
Other fungi that have caused IE include Histoplasma, Blastomyces, 
Coccidioides, Cryptococcus, Hansenula, Fonsecaea (Hormodendrum), Lomentospora prolificans  (formerly Scedosporium prolificans ), Mucor, by other investigators
3 and suggests that anaerobic IE may be more 
prevalent now than it was in 1970.479 Isolation of these organisms may 
be improved by the newer anaerobic culture techniques currently  
in use.
Other Bacteria
Coxiella burnetii
IE due to C. burnetii  (the cause of Q fever) is well documented in 
the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, France, the Middle 
East, and Australia480–482 (see Chapter 188). Ten cases of Q fever IE 
were recognized in four Dublin teaching hospitals during a period of 3 years.
481 Q fever usually is a self-limited respiratory illness caused by 
the inhalation of infected aerosols.483 The first IE cases were reported 
in 1959. Men outnumber women by 6 to 1, and 90% of patients have preexisting heart disease. Most cases of C. burnetii  IE are chronic, with 
a history of an influenza-like illness occurring 6 to 12 months previ -
ously. Risk factors may include exposure to parturient cats or rabbits, 
previous valvulopathy, and pregnancy.
482 The aortic valve is involved 
in more than 80% of the cases. Hematuria is uncommon, although 
it is observed frequently in acute Q fever. Hepatosplenomegaly and hepatitis, common features in other types of Q fever, are seen in about half of patients with IE caused by this organism. Other important clues 
are thrombocytopenia (seen in 90% of cases) and hypergammaglobu -
linemia. Immune complex–mediated glomerulonephritis develops in 
approximately 25% of cases.
480,481,484 Histologically, C. burnetii  IE is 
characterized by significant fibrosis and calcifications, slight inflammation and vascularization, and small or absent vegetations.
296 Coxiella  were 
shown histologically in the valve tissue in 62% of the cases, and the organism was isolated in 83%, although this poses a significant laboratory hazard.
298 The diagnosis is best made serologically; a positive titer of 
antibody to the phase I antigen as measured with complement fixation or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay indicates chronic infection, whereas a fourfold rise in titer of antibody to the phase II antigen is associated with active current infection. A phase I antibody titer 
(usually IgG or IgA or both) greater than 1  :  800 i s considered virtually 
diagnostic of C. burnetii  IE and may be useful to monitor the response to 
therapy.480,485 Isolation of C. burnetii  by inoculation of valve suspensions 
into a human fetal diploid fibroblast cell line seems to be a promising technique.
486 DNA probes are under development. The prognosis with 
medical therapy alone is poor, and valve replacement often is necessary for a cure (see later discussion). This agent also may cause endarteritis. A single case of IE due to the causative agent of murine typhus has  
been reported.
287
Chlamydia psittaci
Chlamydia psittaci, the agent of psittacosis, has been implicated in at least 10 well-documented cases of IE.
487 This organism also may cause 
myocarditis or pericarditis. Most cases have been associated with psit -
tacine bird exposure; in one case, chlamydiae were found in the liver of the suspected budgerigar. Transmission from pet cats also has been proposed. The course is subacute, and the diagnosis often is made 
retrospectively. Most patients had preexisting heart disease, with a 
striking propensity for aortic valve involvement, and rapid valvular destruction leading to surgical intervention or death. A diagnosis can be established with the demonstration of complement-fixing antibodies. Cure usually requires valve replacement and prolonged antibiotic therapy. The mortality rate in this small group was 40%. Two well-documented cases of IE due to Chlamydia trachomatis  have been reported.
488 Microim -
munofluorescence tests are necessary for a diagnosis. Several cases of probable Chlamydia pneumoniae  IE have been reported.
489 IE due to 
Mycoplasma pneumoniae  was proposed in one case report, but cultural 
confirmation was lacking.490
Tropheryma whipplei
T. whipplei  is the causative agent of Whipple disease. Although its precise 
ecologic niche is unclear, there is increasing evidence to suggest that T. whipplei  may be a component of the microbiota of the human respira -
tory tract, especially in patients with HIV . T. whipplei  is an occasional 
cause of IE and has been cultivated from human valvular tissue.
491 In 
a review of 35 reported cases of Whipple IE, CHF , fever, and preceding 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1088Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
agents of IE associated with injection drug use. S. aureus  predominated 
in New Y ork City, Chicago, Cincinnati, and Washington, DC; P . aeruginosa  
IE was traditionally encountered in Detroit and has recently resurfaced 
there,437 but MRSA still predominates. A 1990 compilation from Detroit 
indicated the distribution of causative agents in addicts with IE ( n = 
74) as follows: S. aureus,  60.8%; streptococci, 16.2%; P . aeruginosa,  13.5%; 
polymicrobial, 8.1%; and Corynebacterium  JK, 1.4%.519
Polymicrobial IE (as many as eight different pathogens have been 
recovered from blood cultures of an individual patient) is fairly common among drug addicts. Some authors have speculated that HIV infection Paecilomyces,  and Phialophora. Histoplasma capsulatum  IE has been 
diagnosed rapidly using direct application of AccuProbe (Hologic Gen-Probe, San Diego, CA) on an excised cardiac valve.
507 Of the eight 
reported cases of IE due to Trichosporon beigelii, six occurred on 
prosthetic valves; only two patients have survived with a combined medical-surgical approach.
508 Pseudallescheria boydii  has caused IE in 
approximately five reported patients; all were immunosuppressed (e.g., liver transplant, AIDS) or had received prosthetic heart valves.
509 A 
single case of Trichoderma longibrachiatum  has been reported from a 
cardiac device–related IE.510
IE also has been rarely caused by higher bacteria, such as Actinomyces, 
Nocardia,  and Mycobacterium  spp.
Viruses
The role of viruses in IE is unknown. Experimentally, coxsackievirus B has been shown to produce valvular and mural endocarditis in mice and cynomolgus monkeys.
511 In these studies, the viral antigen was 
identified in the valvular tissue by immunofluorescence techniques. Although the enteroviruses commonly are implicated in cases of myocarditis or pericarditis in humans, there is no proof that viral infections produce IE in humans. Adenoviruses also are capable of 
producing IE in mice. Persand
512 described a case of “cytomegalovirus 
endocarditis, ” but bacteria also were cultured from a mural lesion. 
Another potential case of CMV endocarditis was reported in a patient with CMV viremia and viral inclusions in resected valve leaflet tissue.
513 
In this case, the patient had also been recently treated for group G streptococcal bacteremia, limiting the ability to confidently establish CMV as the primary pathogen.
Culture-Negative Endocarditis
As discussed earlier, sterile blood cultures have been noted in 2.5% to 31% of cases of IE.
514,515 However, blood cultures are negative in only 
approximately 5% of patients who have IE confirmed by strict diagnostic criteria.
516,517 Sterile blood cultures may be the result in several conditions: 
(1) subacute right-sided IE; (2) cultures taken toward the end of a chronic course ( >3 months); (3) uremia supervening in a chronic course; 
(4) mural IE, as in ventricular septal defects, post–myocardial infarction thrombi, or infection related to pacemaker wires; (5) slow growth of 
fastidious organisms, such as anaerobes, Haemophilus  spp., Actinobacillus  
spp., Cardiobacterium  spp., Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp., or 
Brucella  spp; (6) prior administration of antibiotics
514,517; (7) fungal IE; 
(8) IE caused by obligate intracellular parasites, such as Coxiella,  
Chlamydiae, T. whipplei,295 and perhaps viruses; or (9) noninfective 
endocarditis or an incorrect diagnosis. Table 80.6 summarizes common 
causes of culture-negative IE. Attention to the proper collection of blood culture specimens, care in the performance of serologic tests, and use of newer diagnostic techniques may reduce the proportion of culture-
negative cases.
Polymicrobial Endocarditis
The proportion of IE cases due to more than one pathogen may be increasing. In a literature review spanning the 1980s,
518 101 cases of 
polymicrobial IE were found. S. aureus  and viridans-group streptococci 
were the most common identified organisms. The mean age was 36.5 
years, the male-to-female ratio was almost 2  :  1, a nd 71 of the patients 
were injection drug users. As expected, tricuspid valve involvement 
with septic pulmonary emboli was common. Left-sided involvement, two organisms (vs. three or more), and older age were associated with a higher mortality rate.
Etiology of Infective Endocarditis in Injection 
Drug Users
The organisms responsible for IE in injection drug users require separate 
consideration, because the distribution differs from that in other patients with IE. The frequencies of the etiologic agents isolated before 1977 in seven major series were as follows: S. aureus, 38%; P . aeruginosa, 14.2%; 
Candida  spp., 13.8%; enterococci, 8.2%; viridans streptococci, 6%; S. 
epidermidis,  1.7%; gram-negative aerobic bacilli, 1.7% to 15%; other 
bacteria, 2.2%; mixed infections, 1.3%; and culture negative, 12.9%. In addition, there was an unexplained geographic variation in the causal TABLE 80.6  Causes of Cultur e-Negative 
Endocarditis
ORGANISMEPIDEMIOLOGY 
AND EXPOSURESDIAGNOSTIC APPROACHES
Aspergillus and 
other 
noncandidal 
fungiProsthetic valve Lysis-centrifugation 	technique; 	
also culture and histopathologic examination of 
any emboli
Bartonella spp. B. henselae: exposure to 
cats or cat fleas
B. quintana: louse 
infestation; 
homelessness, alcohol 
abuseMost common cause of 
culture-negative IE in United 
States; serologic testing (may cross-react with Chlamydia spp.); PCR assay of valve or 
emboli is best test; lysis-
centrifugation 	technique 	may 	
be useful
Brucella spp. Ingestion of 
unpasteurized milk or 
dairy products; livestock contactBlood cultures ultimately become 
positive in 80% of cases with extended incubation time of 
4-6 wk; lysis-centrifugation 
technique 	may 	expedite 	
growth; serologic tests are available
Chlamydia 
psittaciBird exposure Serologic tests available but 
exhibit cross-reactivity with Bartonella; monoclonal antibody direct stains on tissue 
may be useful; PCR assay now 
available
Coxiella burnetii
(Q fever)Global distribution; 
zoonosis, wide range 
of mammalsSerologic tests (high titers of 
antibody to both phase I and phase II antigens); also PCR assay on blood or valve tissue
HACEK spp. Periodontal disease or 
preceding dental workAlthough traditionally a cause of 
culture-negative IE, HACEK species are now routinely 
isolated	fr om 	most 	liquid 	br oth 	
continuous monitoring blood culture systems without 
prolonged incubation times
Legionella spp. Contaminated water 
distribution systems; 
prosthetic valvesSerology available; periodic 
subcultures onto buffered charcoal yeast extract medium; 
lysis-centrifugation 	technique; 	
PCR assay available
Abiotrophia and 
Granulicatella spp.Slow and indolent course Supplemented culture media or 
growth as satellite colonies around Staphylococcus aureus 
streak; antimicrobial susceptibility testing often 
requires	pr ocessing 	specialized 	
microbiology laboratory
Tropheryma 
whipplei (Whipple disease)Typical signs and 
symptoms include diarrhea, weight loss, arthralgias, abdominal pain, lymphadenopathy, 
central nervous system 
involvement; IE may be present without 
systemic symptomsHistologic examination of valve 
with periodic acid–Schiff stain; 
valve cultures may be done using fibroblast cell lines; PCR assay on vegetation material
HACEK, Haemophilus, Aggregatibacter  (formerly Actinobacillus), Cardiobacterium, 
Eikenella, Kingella ; IE, infective endocarditis; PCR, polymerase chain reaction.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1089Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections unknown. The suboptimal clinical efficacy of teicoplanin in several 
clinical trials treating intravascular S. aureus infections may relate 
to the maldistribution of this agent within vegetations.527 Analysis of 
pharmacodynamic variables (e.g., concentration-dependent bactericidal activity, postantibiotic effect) also may assist in the rational selection of regimens for the treatment of IE.
526 Studies in animals have confirmed 
that when vegetation formation is inhibited with anticoagulants, the organisms are eradicated more rapidly with penicillin treatment than in control animals with larger vegetations.
175 Enzymatic modification 
of the glycocalyx in the vegetations of experimental streptococcal IE by in vivo dextranase administration facilitated the bactericidal activity of penicillin by more rapid sterilization of the lesion.
528 In contrast, tissue-
type plasminogen activator produced a concentration-dependent lysis of fibrin clots or vegetations infected with S. epidermidis  or S. sanguinis  
but did not enhance antimicrobial activity in in vitro models.
529,530 
Several studies in experimental IE have confirmed the utility of aspirin in reducing the size of vegetations and the microbial densities within aortic vegetations.
531,532 In addition, one clinical study in patients with 
established IE suggested that aspirin could mitigate the growth of vegetative lesions (as monitored echocardiographically) and prevent  
cerebral emboli.
533
General Principles
Certain general principles have been accepted that provide the framework for the current recommendations for treatment of IE. Parenteral antibiot -
ics are recommended over oral drugs in most circumstances because of the importance of sustained antibacterial activity. Erratic absorption with many classes of agents makes oral drugs less desirable. Short-term 
therapy has been associated with relapse, and most current recom -
mendations emphasize extended drug administration. Early studies by 
the British Medical Research Council
534 first emphasized the necessity 
for prolonged treatment. Bacteriostatic antibiotics are generally ineffective in the treatment of bacterial IE. Their use has been associated with frequent relapses, failure to control the infection, or both. A symptomatic response to agents such as tetracycline, erythromycin, or in some cases 
clindamycin should not be accepted as indicative of successful treatment, 
because relapse is common after treatment with these agents is discon -
tinued. Likewise, antibiotic combinations should produce a rapid bactericidal effect. This is seen with synergistic combinations, such as penicillin plus an aminoglycoside effective against most viridans streptococci or enterococci. In experimental animals, the rate of bac -
tericidal action expressed by a drug or combination of drugs in broth is predictive of the relative rate at which the organisms are eradicated from the cardiac vegetations in vivo. Antagonistic combinations, such 
as penicillin plus chloramphenicol, which are less rapidly bactericidal, 
are less effective in experimental IE than the single bactericidal drug (penicillin) alone.
535 General guidelines for the evaluation of new 
antimicrobial agents for the treatment of IE were published in 1992.536 
Guidelines for outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy for IE have been published. These guidelines outline a conservative approach (inpatient or daily outpatient follow-up) during the critical phase (weeks 0–2 of 
treatment), when complications are most likely, followed by outpatient 
parenteral antibiotic therapy for the continuation phase of antibiotic therapy.
537
Patients with IE may have an associated myocarditis complicated 
by cardiac arrhythmias and CHF . These patients (with IE plus CHF) require close observation in an intensive care unit with electrocardio-graphic monitoring. As discussed later, the selection of antibiotics should be based on antimicrobial susceptibility tests and the treatment should 
be monitored clinically and with determination of antimicrobial blood 
levels when indicated. Blood cultures should be obtained during the early phase of therapy to ensure eradication of the bacteremia and in patients with persistent or recurrent fever during therapy. The use of anticoagulants during therapy for native valve IE has been associated with fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage and other bleeding complications. Most authorities agree that anticoagulant administration in this setting is contraindicated, but this conclusion is controversial. In cases of IE localized to mechanical prosthetic valves, many clinicians maintain 
anticoagulation within therapeutic range, provided that the patient has 
no evidence of major vascular emboli (e.g., central nervous system predisposes injection drug users to IE owing to unusual bacteria, including Corynebacterium  and Neisseria  spp.
519 Although S. aureus  IE 
in this population usually was tricuspid, streptococci infected left-sided valves significantly more often than the other pathogens. Biventricular and multiple-valve infections occurred most commonly in Pseudomonas  
IE, and all of these patients abused “Ts and blues. ” Left-sided IE due to 
P . aeruginosa  is a devastating disease and usually manifests as an acute 
illness refractory to seemingly optimal antimicrobial regimens. Complica-
tions, including ring and annular abscesses, neurologic sequelae, CHF , and splenic abscesses, are common; surgery is often necessary for cure.
520 
The overall mortality rate still approaches 60%, however.
S. marcescens  was an important historical pathogen in San Francisco,432 
although S. aureus now predominates in this patient population (HF 
Chambers, personal communication). These differences do not correlate with contamination of “street” heroin.
521 The high incidence of staphy-
lococcal endocarditis may be explained partially by an increase in nasal and oral carriage of this organism.
522 Heroin use during the previous 
week was associated with an S. aureus isolation rate of 35% from skin, 
nose, or throat cultures; this rate declined to 11% (not significantly different from that in controls) if heroin had not been injected in the preceding 2 weeks. This suggests an endogenous source for the infecting 
organism, because S. aureus is infrequently (in <5% of cases) isolated 
from street heroin or injection paraphernalia.
The exact incidence of IE in injection drug use is unknown. A 
conservative estimate is 1.5 to 2 cases of IE per 1000 addicts at risk per year.
523 Injection drug use is the most common risk factor for the 
development of recurrent native valve IE; 43% of 281 patients surveyed from 1975 to 1986 with this syndrome were addicts (see earlier discus -
sion).
524 A nested case-control study from Johns Hopkins University 
found that IE was more common among injection drug users with advanced immunosuppression, even after accounting for injection drug use behaviors. Analyses have shown that although S. aureus remains 
the most common cause of right-sided IE in injection drug users, cases 
of left-sided IE in this population are also commonly caused by viridans-
group streptococci.
THERAPY FOR INFECTIVE 
ENDOCARDITIS
The response to antimicrobial therapy for IE is unique among bacterial 
infections. Although the organisms may exhibit exquisite susceptibility in vitro to the antibiotics used, complete eradication takes weeks to achieve, and relapse is not unusual. There are two possible explanations for these phenomena: (1) The infection exists in an area of impaired 
host defense and is encased tightly in a fibrin meshwork in which the 
bacterial colonies divide relatively free from interference from phagocytic cells, and (2) the bacteria in these vegetations reach tremendous popula -
tion densities (often 10
9 to 1010 CFUs/g). At these high populations, 
the organisms may exist in a state of reduced metabolic activity and cell division, as was suggested by Durack and Beeson
171 in studies of 
l-alanine incorporation into bacterial cell walls. A similar finding is observed in broth in vitro after 18 hours of incubation. In both situations, 
the bacteria are less susceptible to the bactericidal action of penicillin or other drugs that require cell wall synthesis and division for maximal 
activity. The relative importance of antimicrobial penetration into vegetations in the response to therapy is unresolved. Although multiple studies have examined antibiotic concentrations in human cardiac valve tissue obtained during surgery
525 and they have usually been found to 
be in close agreement with concurrent serum concentrations, the rel -
evance of these data to therapy for IE is unknown, so current recom -
mendations remain unaltered.
Information on antimicrobial concentration in vegetations, either 
in experimental models or in humans with IE, is sparse. Experiments involving a single dose of a radiolabeled antimicrobial agent with auto -
radiographic analysis of drug dispersion within vegetations of animals with experimental IE revealed three patterns
526: (1) concentration at 
the periphery of the vegetation without diffusion into the core (e.g., teicoplanin); (2) progressive diffusion, but with a high gradient from periphery to core (e.g., ceftriaxone); or (3) homogeneous diffusion throughout the vegetation (e.g., several fluoroquinolones). The predic -
tive value of these observations with regard to therapeutic efficacy is 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections 
1089.e1
Update: Partial Oral Antibiotics for Infective Endocarditis
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1090Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
disk sensitivity testing is unreliable in the context of treating IE, and 
results may be misleading without the quantitative information provided from the MIC and MBC.
In some forms of IE, combinations of antibiotics are used routinely.
542 
These regimens are based on synergy studies performed in vitro and on results obtained in experimental animal models of IE. In difficult cases with a slow therapeutic response and in cases caused by unusual organisms, a determination of synergistic combinations of antibiotics 
may be helpful. In these cases, tests for bactericidal synergism may be 
undertaken by standard techniques, such as broth dilution, microtiter “checkerboards, ” or time-kill curves in broth. Proper attention to standardized techniques, especially inoculum size, is crucial for a meaningful interpretation of the results.
When aminoglycosides are used in therapy, the concentration of 
antibiotic in the serum should be determined periodically. These agents have a low toxic-to-therapeutic ratio, especially in elderly patients and in patients with renal disease. Peak and trough concentrations should 
be measured, and the dose should be altered accordingly. This method 
is superior to reliance solely on nomograms for dosage changes. If synergy with another agent is demonstrable, serum concentrations of the aminoglycosides lower than those generally considered “therapeutic” may be adequate, lessening the potential for toxicity.
Antimicrobial Therapy
The treatment recommendations contained in this chapter are sum -
marized in Table 80.7 and are based on published guidelines from the 
American Heart Association Committee on Endocarditis published in October 2015.
1 The role of aminoglycosides and other agents in combina -
tion therapy for IE also has been reviewed.543signs or symptoms). One study concluded that oral anticoagulation should be discontinued in patients with S. aureus prosthetic valve IE until the septic phase of the disease is resolved (approximately 10 days after initiation of antimicrobial therapy).
538
Patients with left-sided IE should be managed at least initially in 
facilities with access to cardiothoracic surgery. Although persistent or recurrent fever despite appropriate antimicrobial therapy may be due to pulmonary or systemic emboli or drug hypersensitivity, the most common cause is extensive valve ring or adjacent structure infection 
or metastatic infection.
539 Approximately one-third of patients with 
left-sided IE require surgery during the acute stages of infection for 
either valve replacement or metastatic infection.347 Close monitoring 
of and early surgical consultation for patients with IE, particularly those with signs of heart failure or persistent fever, are essential. The critical role of early cardiac surgery in many cases of IE has been clearly reiterated by a large, well-designed propensity study
540 and one randomized trial.541 
However, this latter study has been criticized for study design issues that limited generalizability, including infrequency of S. aureus IE and 
a relatively young and healthy patient population.
Tests Useful for Antimicrobial  
Treatment Monitoring
Management of IE demands careful consideration of the choice, dose, and duration of antimicrobial therapy. The following laboratory tests can help the physician to monitor treatment and can aid in rational therapeutic decisions. In every case of bacterial IE, the etiologic agent must be isolated in pure culture and the minimal inhibitory concentration 
(MIC) and minimal bactericidal concentration (MBC) must be deter -
mined for the usual antibiotics used (see later discussion). Standard 
TABLE 80.7  Summary of T reatment Options for Endocarditis
ORGANISM REGIMENaCOMMENTS
Staphylococcus aureus
Native Valve
Methicillin-susceptible Nafcillin	or 	oxacillin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q4h 	× 4–6 wk Use of gentamicin in native valve S. aureus IE is associated with significant 
nephrotoxicity without clear clinical benefit and is discouraged.
Cefazolin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q8h 	× 4–6 wk Acceptable in setting of penicillin allergy other than immediate hypersensitivity. 
See above cautions about gentamicin use.
Methicillin-resistant Vancomycin, 	15–20 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8–12h 	× 6 wkbAlso acceptable in setting of immediate hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis to penicillin; 
goal vancomycin trough level 10–20  µg/mL is recommended with careful 
monitoring of renal function.
Daptomycin, 	6 	mg/kg 	IV 	qd 	× 4–6 wkbDaptomycin is FDA approved for treatment of right-sided S. aureus IE; for adults, 
some experts recommend 8-10  mg/kg IV.
Prosthetic Valve
Methicillin-susceptible Nafcillin	or 	oxacillin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q4h 	× ≥6 wk, plus 
gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 2 wk, plus 
rifampin,	300 	mg 	PO/IV 	q8h 	× ≥6 wkSome authorities recommend delaying the initiation of rifampin therapy for several 
days in an attempt to prevent treatment-emergent resistance to rifampin.
Methicillin-resistant Vancomycin, 	15–20 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8–12h 	× ≥6 wk 
plus	gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 2 wk, plus 
rifampin,	300 	mg 	PO/IV 	q8h 	× ≥6 wkGoal vancomycin trough level 10–20  µg/mL is recommended with careful 
monitoring of renal function.
Some authorities recommend delaying the initiation of rifampin therapy for several 
days in an attempt to prevent treatment-emergent resistance to rifampin.
Injection Drug Use
Methicillin-susceptible Nafcillin	or 	oxacillin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q4h 	× 2 wk; plus 
gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 2 wkTwo-week regimen only for use in injection drug users with infection limited to 
tricuspid valve, no renal insufficiency, and no extrapulmonary infection. Two 
weeks of monotherapy with antistaphylococcal penicillin has also been 
successfully used in these patients.
Methicillin-resistant Vancomycin, 	15–20 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8–12h 	× 4 wk Use of gentamicin in this setting is not recommended. Goal vancomycin trough 
level 10–20  µg/mL is recommended with careful monitoring of renal function.
Daptomycin, 	6 	mg/kg 	IV 	qd 	× 4–6 wk Daptomycin is FDA approved for treatment of right-sided S. aureus IE; for adults, 
some experts recommend 8-10  mg/kg IV.
Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci
Native Valve
Methicillin-susceptible Nafcillin	or 	oxacillin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q4h 	× 4–6 wk
Methicillin-resistant Vancomycin, 	15–20 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8–12h 	× 6 wk Also acceptable in setting of immediate hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis to penicillin. 
Goal vancomycin trough level 10–20  µg/mL is recommended with careful 
monitoring of renal function.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1091Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections ORGANISM REGIMENaCOMMENTS
Prosthetic Valve
Methicillin-susceptible Nafcillin	or 	oxacillin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q4h 	× ≥6 wk, plus 
gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 2 wk, plus 
rifampin,	300 	mg 	PO/IV 	q8h 	× ≥6 wkSome authorities recommend delaying the initiation of rifampin therapy for several 
days in an attempt to prevent treatment-emergent resistance to rifampin.
Methicillin-resistant Vancomycin, 	15–20 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8–12h 	× ≥6 wk, 
plus	gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 2 wk, plus 
rifampin,	300 	mg 	PO/IV 	q8h 	× ≥6 wkGoal vancomycin trough level 10–20  µg/mL is recommended with careful 
monitoring of renal function.
Some authorities recommend delaying the initiation of rifampin therapy for several 
days in an attempt to prevent treatment-emergent resistance to rifampin.
Penicillin-Susceptible Viridans Streptococci (MIC ≤0.1 µg/mL) and Streptococcus bovis (S. gallolyticus)
Penicillin,	2–3 	million 	units 	IV 	q4h 	× 4 wk, or 
ampicillin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q4h 	× 4 wkAlso effective for other penicillin-susceptible nonviridans streptococci (e.g., group 
A streptococci)
Ceftriaxone, 	2 	g 	IV 	qd 	× 4 wk For penicillin allergy; patients with uncomplicated viridans streptococcal IE are 
candidates for outpatient therapy.
Penicillin,	2–3 	million 	units 	IV 	q4h 	× 2 wk, plus 
gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 2 wkUncomplicated native valve IE only; not acceptable for Abiotrophia and 
Granulicatella spp.
Abiotrophia and 
Granulicatella spp.Penicillin,	2–4 	million 	units 	IV 	q4h 	× 4 wk, plus 
gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 2 wkFor prosthetic valve IE, give 6  wk of penicillin. Abiotrophia and Granulicatella spp. 
are often penicillin tolerant.
Vancomycin, 	15–20 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8-12h 	× 4 wk For penicillin allergy. No published guidelines exist for vancomycin trough targeting 
for treatment of streptococcal or enterococcal infections.
Relatively Penicillin-Resistant Viridans Streptococci (MIC 0.12 to <0.5 µg/mL)
Penicillin,	4 	million 	units 	IV 	q4h 	× 4 wk, plus 
gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 2 wk
Vancomycin, 	15–20 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8–12h 	× 4 wk For penicillin allergy or to avoid gentamicin. No published guidelines exist for 
vancomycin trough targeting for treatment of streptococcal or enterococcal 
infections.
Enterococcic and Penicillin-Resistant Viridans Streptococci (Penicillin MIC >0.5 µg/mL)
Penicillin-susceptible, 
aminoglycoside-susceptible enterococciPenicillin
d	3–5	g	IV	q4h 	× 4–6 wk, plus 
gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8h 	× 4–6 wk; or
Ampicillin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q4h, 	plus gentamicin, 1  mg/kg 
IV	q8h	× 4–6 wkIncrease duration of both drugs to 6  wk for prosthetic valve infection or for 
enterococcal IE with symptoms >3 mo. For older patients and those with 
underlying renal disease, can consider shortening the duration of gentamicin to 
2 wk.
Penicillin-resistant, 
vancomycin-susceptible, aminoglycoside-
susceptible enterococciVancomycin, 	15–20 	mg/kg 	IV 	q8–12h 	× 6 wk, 
plus	gentamicin, 	1 	mg/kg 	q8h 	× 6 wkeAlso for patients with penicillin allergy. This regimen is associated with enhanced 
risk of nephrotoxicity. Penicillin desensitization should be considered as an 
alternative to this regimen when possible. No published guidelines exist for 
vancomycin trough targeting for treatment of streptococcal or enterococcal infections.
Penicillin-susceptible, 
aminoglycoside-resistant enterococciAmpicillin, 	2 	g 	IV 	q4h, 	plus ceftriaxone, 2  g IV 
q12hUseful for patients with significant underlying renal disease.
Penicillin-resistant, 
vancomycin-resistant enterococciNo standard therapy; daptomycin, linezolid, and 
quinupristin-dalfopristin 	have 	been 	usedConsult infectious diseases specialist.
HACEK Strains
Ceftriaxone, 	2 	g 	IV 	qd 	× 4 wk Increase duration to 6  wk for infections involving prosthetic valves.
Ampicillin-sulbactam, 	3 	g 	IV 	q6h 	× 4 wk (if 
β-lactamase producing strain)aIncrease duration to 6  wk for infections involving prosthetic valves.
Non-HACEK Gram-Negative Bacillif
Enterobacteriaceae Extended-spectrum penicillin (e.g., piperacillin-
tazobactam) or cephalosporin plus 
aminoglycosides for susceptible strainsTreat for a minimum of 6-8  wk. Some species exhibit inducible resistance to 
third-generation 	cephalosporins. 	V alve 	surgery 	is 	often 	r equired 	for 	patients 	with 	
left-sided IE caused by gram-negative bacilli, especially for prosthetic valve IE. Consultation with an infectious diseases specialist is recommended.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa Antipseudomonal penicillin (e.g., piperacillin) 
plus
 high-dose tobramycin, 8  mg/kg/day IV or 
IM in once-daily doses; or
High-dose ceftazidime, cefepime, or imipenemGoal tobramycin peak and trough concentrations of 15–20  µg/mL and ≤2 µg/mL, 
respectively. 	T reat 	for 	a 	minimum 	of 	6–8 	wk. 	Early 	valve 	surgery 	usually 	r equired 	
for left-sided Pseudomonas IE; consultation with a specialist in infectious 
diseases is recommended.
Fungif
Treatment with a parenteral antifungal agent 
(usually an amphotericin B–containing product) 
is usually recommended as initial therapyFungal endocarditis is usually an indication for valve replacement surgery. 
Long-term/lifelong suppressive therapy with oral antifungal agents is often 
required.	Consultation 	with 	a 	specialist 	in 	infectious 	diseases 	is 	r ecommended.
aDosages assume normal renal function. For patients with renal insufficiency, adjustments must be made for all antibiotics except nafcillin, rifampin, and ceftriaxone. 
Gentamicin doses should be adjusted to achieve a peak serum concentration of approximately 3  µg/mL 30 minutes after dosing and a trough gentamicin level of <1 µg/mL.
bPrimarily relevant to left-sided IE.
cEnterococci must undergo antimicrobial susceptibility testing. These recommendations are for enterococci susceptible to penicillin, gentamicin, and vancomycin except as 
indicated.
dAmpicillin, 12  g/day, can be used instead of penicillin.
eThe need to add an aminoglycoside has not been demonstrated for penicillin-resistant streptococci.
fLimited data exist.
FDA, US Food and Drug Administration; HACEK, Haemophilus, Aggregatibacter  (formerly Actinobacillus), Cardiobacterium, Eikenella, Kingella ; IE, infective endocarditis; 
MIC, minimal inhibitory concentration.
Modified from Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et  al. Infective endocarditis: diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and management of complications: a scientific statement 
for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2015;132:1435.TABLE 80.7  Summary of T reatment Options for Endocarditis—cont’d
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1092Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
associated with a 50% relapse rate if low doses of penicillin were used 
and improved to 17% with higher penicillin dosages. The 2-week penicillin-streptomycin regimen has been the most cost-effective and the preferred therapy among these three regimens in uncomplicated penicillin-sensitive (MIC ≤
0.12 µg/mL) streptococcal IE in young 
patients. However, since the advent of ceftriaxone-based regimens (featuring 2 weeks of ceftriaxone plus an aminoglycoside), many clinicians have opted for this approach (see later discussion).
568,569 Four weeks of 
penicillin (or ceftriaxone; see later discussion) alone is recommended for patients with impaired renal function and for those who are par -
ticularly susceptible to the low risk for streptomycin-induced ototoxicity (i.e., the elderly). The Cornell regimen (4 weeks of penicillin with an 
initial 2 weeks of streptomycin) has been recommended for patients 
with a complicated course, a history of disease exceeding 3 months’ duration, or prosthetic valve IE caused by these sensitive strains and when susceptibility testing reveals the rare penicillin-resistant strepto -
cocci.
570 The preferred regimen for IE due to penicillin-tolerant 
streptococci is not established.
Most of the published clinical data with β-lactam–aminoglycoside 
regimens for the treatment of viridans streptococcal IE involve the use of penicillin or ampicillin plus either streptomycin or gentamicin. On 
the basis of extensive in vitro and animal data and for a variety of other 
reasons, however, the American Heart Association has deemed gentamicin preferable to streptomycin in this context.
237 First, gentamicin currently 
is more widely available and is used more often clinically than strep-tomycin in viridans streptococcal IE. Second, gentamicin (but not streptomycin) serum level determinations are performed routinely in most hospital laboratories. Because in vitro synergy against most viridans 
streptococci with penicillin or ampicillin in combination with gentamicin 
occurs at low gentamicin concentrations (1–3  µg/mL), most authorities 
recommend using gentamicin at a total daily dose of no more than 
3 m g/kg/day (IM or IV), split into either a twice-daily (every 12 hours) 
or a thrice-daily (every 8 hours) dosage regimen. However, one study 
using ceftriaxone plus gentamicin given as a once-daily dose reported excellent efficacy against penicillin-susceptible streptococcal IE with no increases in aminoglycoside-associated nephrotoxicity.
569 Despite 
the apparent safety of once-daily aminoglycoside dosing in this study and in clinical trials involving patients with other infectious disorders,
571 
the total number of patients receiving such regimens for 2 weeks or longer has been relatively limited. As with any patients receiving aminoglycosides, appropriate clinical and blood level monitoring to mitigate ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity should be used. Nomograms 
for prudent monitoring and adjustment of aminoglycoside doses when 
once-daily regimens are used have been published.
570
We believe that gentamicin, at a total daily dose of 3  m g/kg, should 
be substituted for streptomycin in the aforementioned regimens when combination therapy is deemed advisable. In addition, a penicillin-gentamicin regimen is indicated for viridans streptococcal IE if high-level streptomycin resistance is present
556,557 and for strains that are relatively 
resistant to penicillin (MIC >0.12 µg/mL and ≤0.5 µg/mL).334 Infections 
caused by strains with a penicillin MIC greater than 0.5  µg/mL should 
be treated as for enterococcal IE (see later discussion). Because of the enhanced rate of bacterial killing in animal models
572,573 and the high 
relapse rate of about 17%,574 we also believe that the Cornell regimen 
(using gentamicin as the preferred aminoglycoside) should be employed for all patients with IE due to Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp. 
Although temafloxacin plus tobramycin was as effective as penicillin plus tobramycin against experimental IE caused by G. adiacens in 
rabbits,
575 quinolones are best avoided for IE due to streptococci pending 
further data.
In a penicillin-allergic patient for whom a cephalosporin is deemed 
safe, several regimens are acceptable for IE caused by penicillin-susceptible 
viridans streptococci: (1) cefazolin, 2  g IM o r IV every 8 hours for 4 
weeks, combined with streptomycin, 0.5  g IM or IV every 12 hours; or 
(2) gentamicin, administered IM or IV in two or three daily doses for 
a total of no more than 3  m g/kg daily, for the initial 2 weeks; or (3) 
ceftriaxone alone, 2  g I V or IM given daily for 4 weeks. This last regimen 
has been proven efficacious against penicillin-sensitive streptococcal IE.
576,577 In one uncontrolled trial in Europe, 55 of 59 patients completed 
treatment with 4 months to 5 years of follow-up; treatment was completely Penicillin-Sensitive Streptococcal Endocarditis
Most strains of viridans streptococci, “other” streptococci (including S. pyogenes), and nonenterococcal group D streptococci (primarily S. 
bovis ) are exquisitely sensitive to penicillins, with an MIC of less than 
0.12 µg/mL. Of viridans streptococci, 15% to 20% are “resistant” to this 
arbitrary concentration of penicillin.352,377 In addition, approximately 
15% of the strains of S. mutans  show a low MIC for penicillin ( <0.1 µg/
mL), but the MBC is considerably higher (1.25–50  µg/mL).356 These 
organisms probably should be considered “penicillin tolerant” and should be treated accordingly. Although results depend on the in vitro methodol -
ogy employed,
544 studies beginning in the 1980s suggested that tolerance 
to penicillin among viridans streptococci was more prevalent than previous reports had indicated.
545 Of viridans streptococci cultured from 
gingiva and blood after dental procedures, 19% were tolerant,546 especially 
among S. mutans (27%) and S. mitior (20%) isolates. Almost identical 
figures were reported among blood culture isolates of viridans strep-tococci,
547 with tolerance defined as a penicillin MBC-to-MIC ratio 
exceeding 10  :  1. A lmost all strains of nutritionally dependent streptococci 
were tolerant to penicillin.548,549 The influence of the tolerance phenom -
enon on the response to penicillin therapy in experimental IE is not known; two studies yielded conflicting results.
550,551 Data on human 
infections with tolerant strains and the therapeutic results are unavailable. Except for Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp., we do not believe that 
the demonstration of tolerance by an isolate of viridans streptococci influences therapeutic decisions.
With broth dilution susceptibility tests, the usual MBC determina -
tions for the so-called penicillin-sensitive streptococci are as follows: 
penicillin, 0.1 to 1  µg/mL; cephalothin, 0.15 to 1.25  µg/mL; vancomycin, 
0.15 to 0.4  µg/mL; streptomycin, 6.25 to 50  µg/mL; and gentamicin, 
1.56 to 3.12  µg/mL.552,553 S. bovis is 10 to 5000 times more susceptible 
to penicillin than the other group D species (enterococci). They also are relatively susceptible to oxacillin, methicillin, and lincomycin, whereas the enterococci are resistant.
360 Most streptococci in this 
group show synergism in vitro between penicillin or vancomycin and streptomycin, gentamicin, or kanamycin (see later discussion).
554,555 
The first strains of viridans streptococci with high-level streptomycin resistance (MIC ≥
1000  µg/mL) were reported in 1982 from Paris. 
Although these strains are rare (2%–8% of isolates in some locales),556 
the documentation of aminoglycoside-modifying enzymes and the lack of penicillin-streptomycin synergy in vitro and in experimental animal models
556,557 are alarming. These penicillin-susceptible strains 
may be killed synergistically by penicillin-gentamicin combinations. Significant antibiotic antagonism was shown with the combination of clindamycin and gentamicin for S. mutans IE. The in vitro synergism 
between penicillin and aminoglycosides was found to correlate with 
a more rapid rate of eradication of bacteria from cardiac vegeta -
tions in vivo in the rabbit endocarditis model
558,559 for the common 
viridans streptococci. All of these studies have been summarized in 
reviews.560–562 Low-level penicillin resistance (defined in this study as 
MIC 0.2–2  µg/mL) was found in 31% of viridans streptococci in Madrid 
in 1988 and 1989, and an additional 17% of strains showed high-level 
resistance.563 Perhaps most important, streptomycin and cefotaxime 
resistance also was found to be “common. ”22 The authors suggested a 
vancomycin-gentamicin regimen for IE due to viridans streptococci  
in Spain.
The combination of penicillin and streptomycin was used in more 
than 200 historical cases at The New Y ork Hospital–Cornell Medical Center without a documented relapse.
554 This clinical experience has 
been confirmed elsewhere, but the overall reported relapse rate is 1.4%.561 
This regimen is as follows: aqueous penicillin G, 10 million to 20 million 
units given intravenously daily, or procaine penicillin G, 1.2 million units given intramuscularly every 6 hours, for 4 weeks, combined with 
streptomycin, 0.5  g in tramuscularly every 12 hours for the first 2 weeks. 
Studies by Wilson and colleagues at the Mayo Clinic564,565 showed that 
a 2-week course of intramuscular procaine penicillin (1.2 million units 
every 6 hours) and streptomycin (0.5  g e very 12 hours) cured at least 
99% of patients with penicillin-sensitive streptococcal IE. These results were similar to those obtained with therapy consisting of β-lactams 
alone for a total of 4 weeks
566,567 but significantly better than results 
obtained with penicillin alone for 2 weeks. The latter regimen was 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1093Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections strains. Although successful treatment of enterococcal IE requires such 
combinations, aminoglycoside-associated nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity confer significant risk to patients whose antibiotic regimen includes an aminoglycoside. Studies in experimental models
594 suggest that 
“low-dose” streptomycin (peak serum concentrations of 9.1  µg/mL) in 
combination with penicillin is sufficient to treat streptomycin-susceptible enterococcal IE. “High-level” streptomycin resistance (MIC >
2000  µg/
mL) is demonstrable in at least 60% of current enterococcal strains. This resistance correlates with an inability to show in vitro synergism between penicillin and streptomycin.
595 These highly resistant strains 
show synergism between a penicillin and gentamicin in vitro596,597 at 
clinically achievable serum concentrations. Enhanced activity with the penicillin and gentamicin combination was seen in vivo for streptomycin-resistant and streptomycin-sensitive enterococci in the rabbit model of IE. No differences in results were seen when penicillin was combined 
with low-dose versus high-dose gentamicin (peak serum levels of 
3.06 and 8.05  µg/mL, respectively) in the treatment of experimental 
streptomycin-resistant enterococcal IE.598 Early reports599,600 revealed 
high-level gentamicin resistance among enterococci in 14% of isolates 
beginning in 1979. This phenomenon has become increasingly prevalent in many areas
601–603 beginning with E. faecalis,  but now also includes 
E. faecium .603–605 High-level gentamicin resistance (MIC ≥2000  µg/mL) 
now accounts for at least 35% of enterococcal blood isolates in many hospitals. The resistance is plasmid mediated through the production of aminoglycoside-modifying enzymes and can be transferred among strains. A clonal dissemination is not the cause of the increased frequency 
of these resistant strains, because gentamicin resistance appears in a 
wide variety of different conjugative and nonconjugative plasmids among enterococci.
603 Although these strains seldom cause IE, they present major 
problems in nosocomial infections,606 and, because resistance to multiple 
aminoglycosides is common, they represent a formidable therapeutic challenge.
607 In addition, penicillin-aminoglycoside or vancomycin-
aminoglycoside synergy is not apparent against these organisms  
in vitro.
The optimal therapy for IE due to these highly resistant strains has 
not been established. None of the currently recommended regimens is 
bactericidal against these isolates, and valve replacement608 may be 
necessary for a cure. When these isolates are encountered, all available 
aminoglycosides must be tested separately, because the organism may be susceptible to one but resistant to others. Some isolates are sensitive to quinolones or daptomycin, but these agents have received scant 
attention in human enterococcal infections. Traditionally, long-term 
therapy (8–12 weeks) with high dosages of penicillin (20–40 million 
units IV daily in divided doses) or ampicillin (2–3  g IV e very 4 hours 
or by continuous infusion) for IE due to these multiple aminoglycoside-resistant enterococci was recommended. However, in vitro data
609 and 
two open-label trials (see later discussion) of high-dose ceftriaxone (2  g  
IV twice daily) plus ampicillin610,611 now strongly support the efficacy 
of a double β-lactam combination in the setting of ampicillin-sensitive, 
aminoglycoside-resistant enterococcal IE data. Although results vary among experimental animal models of IE with these strains,
607,612 continu -
ous infusion of high-dose ampicillin throughout the 24-hour period may be more effective than a divided-dose regimen and merits a trial in recalcitrant cases. Even higher-dose aminoglycosides and trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole were ineffective in animal models
613,614 and cannot 
be recommended.
Vancomycin also is bacteriostatic against enterococci and exhibits 
synergy with the aminoglycosides in vitro. The vancomycin-streptomycin 
combination synergistically kills 40% to 80% of enterococcal strains, 
whereas the vancomycin-gentamicin combination shows synergy against 
93% to 98%.615 In one study, vancomycin therapy alone was ineffective 
in eradicating enterococci from cardiac vegetations in the rabbit model of IE, but the combination of vancomycin plus gentamicin rapidly achieved a bactericidal effect.
598 Vancomycin combined with rifampin 
had an indifferent effect against enterococci (43 of 48 strains) in vitro; antagonism was observed rarely.
616 Glycopeptide-resistant strains of 
enterococci first were isolated in France in 1986 and since then have emerged rapidly in many geographic areas worldwide (e.g., New Y ork City
617) as an important cause of nosocomial infections. The genetics 
of vancomycin resistance618 is described elsewhere (see Chapter 30) and uneventful in 71% of patients, whereas valve replacement eventually was required in 10 patients. This regimen may permit outpatient therapy in most stable patients with this disease. In addition, ceftriaxone plus 
an aminoglycoside has shown in vivo synergy in experimental viridans 
streptococcal IE.
578 Combination regimens of 2 weeks, including cef -
triaxone (2  g o nce daily) plus an aminoglycoside (netilmicin or genta -
micin), which allow for shortened, predominantly outpatient regimens, have been studied in penicillin-susceptible viridans streptococcal IE.
568,569 
These trials, performed in Europe and North and South America, documented efficacy in this form of IE comparable to that achieved with other 2-week or 4-week regimens.
568,569
If treatment with β-lactams is contraindicated, the regimen of choice 
is vancomycin, 30  m g/kg/24  h in two equally divided doses (not to 
exceed 2  g/24  h, un less serum concentrations are inappropriately low) 
for 4 weeks.334 Because patients, particularly obese patients, who are 
receiving a fixed dose of vancomycin regularly received inadequate doses of the antibiotic, weight-based dosing strategies are preferred.
579 
A 4-week regimen of high-dose teicoplanin has been efficacious in a few patients with streptococcal IE,
580 but the occurrence of drug 
fever and infection with teicoplanin-tolerant S. bovis is cause for  
concern.
Endocarditis Caused by Streptococci With 
Penicillin Minimal Inhibitory Concentration 
Greater Than 0.5  µg/mL or by Enterococci
Enterococci are a common cause of IE and can be highly resistant to 
therapy. The mortality rate still approximates 20%,578 and relapses are 
common. With broth dilution susceptibility tests, the MIC determinations 
for many enterococci are as follows: penicillin, 0.4 to 12.5  µg/mL; 
ampicillin, less than 0.4 to 3.1  µg/mL; cephalothin, 12.5 to 25  µg/mL; 
vancomycin, 0.78 to 3.1  µg/mL; streptomycin, 3.1 to greater than 50  µg/
mL; and gentamicin, 6.25 to 25  µg/mL. Ampicillin is approximately 
twice as active as penicillin by weight. In contrast, the usual MBC 
determinations are as follows: penicillin, greater than 6.25  µg/mL (in 
80% of cases, >100 µg/mL); cephalothin, greater than 100  µg/mL; 
streptomycin, greater than 25  µg/mL; vancomycin, greater than 100  µg/
mL; and gentamicin, 25  µg/mL or less.581 E. faecium strains are more 
resistant to β-lactams than are E. faecalis  strains.582 In general, these 
agents are bacteriostatic against the enterococci and should not be administered alone in this disease. This bacteriostatic action of agents known to inhibit cell wall synthesis is the result of a defective bacterial autolytic enzyme system.
583,584 As stated earlier, all β-lactams, including 
imipenem, are bacteriostatic against enterococci in vitro, and combination regimens are used in treating IE whenever possible.
585
A new mechanism of penicillin resistance among E. faecalis  strains 
was described in 1983: plasmid-mediated β -lactamase production. These 
strains remain relatively rare.586,587 E. faecalis  predominates, but 
β-lactamase production was documented in E. faecium.588 Ampicillin-
sulbactam overcomes the β-lactamase production and appears to be 
equivalent to vancomycin589,590 (or teicoplanin591) in experimental IE 
involving these organisms and superior to therapy with ticarcillin-
clavulanate.591 Most β-lactamase–producing organisms also display 
high-level aminoglycoside resistance, further compromising and 
complicating the choice of available regimens (see later discussion). Still other enterococci, particularly E. faecium  and Enterococcus raffinosus,  
may display high-level penicillin resistance in the absence of β-lactamase 
production related to perturbations in various penicillin-binding proteins; experimental IE caused by these organisms responds to therapy with daptomycin or vancomycin.
592 To date, the number of reported cases 
of enterococcal IE caused by β-lactamase–producing strains or cases with high-level penicillin resistance on a nonenzymatic basis is low. The traditional view of β-lactam tolerance among enterococci has been 
challenged
593 in that some strains show “paradoxical” tolerance (i.e., 
there is a higher percentage of survivors at higher antibiotic concentra -
tions). This phenomenon is shown more easily in vitro at high bacterial densities in stationary growth phase, a situation presumably reflecting the in vivo conditions in the vegetation, and may be important in bacterial 
persistence or relapse during or after therapy for enterococcal IE.
Cell wall–active antibiotics plus an aminoglycoside are synergistic 
and produce a bactericidal effect in vitro against most enterococcal 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1094Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
aminoglycoside. The treatment of enterococcal IE caused by highly 
aminoglycoside-resistant or glycopeptide-resistant strains was discussed earlier.
Alternatives to Full-Course Aminoglycoside 
Therapy for Enterococcal Infective Endocarditis
The significant risk for nephrotoxicity accompanying the traditional 
4- to 6-week course of aminoglycoside therapy recommended for enterococcal IE has prompted a number of investigators to consider potentially safer alternatives. Olaison and colleagues
634 conducted a 
5-year nationwide prospective cohort study in Sweden in which 93 episodes of enterococcal IE were identified. Although current American Heart Association guidelines for the treatment of enterococcal IE recom -
mend combined treatment with penicillin or ampicillin plus an ami -
noglycoside for 4 to 6 weeks, these investigators evaluated the clinical outcomes when the total duration of aminoglycoside therapy was reduced. Patients in this observational study had a median of 15 days of combined penicillin-ampicillin plus aminoglycoside. The overall cure rate of 81% (75 of 93) compared favorably with most historical control studies of enterococcal IE.
635,636 The authors concluded that reducing the amino-
glycoside duration to approximately 2 weeks would maintain clinical efficacy while reducing potential toxicities in this high-risk patient population with enterococcal IE.
634 A study from Denmark has essentially 
confirmed the equivalent efficacies and reduced renal toxicities of the shorter-term aminoglycoside strategy for enterococcal IE.
637
A second aminoglycoside-sparing strategy for ampicillin-susceptible 
enterococcal IE involves pairing ampicillin with high-dose ceftriaxone 
(2 g IV e very 12 hours) instead of gentamicin. This approach takes 
advantage of the fact that the combination of ceftriaxone and ampicillin can saturate at least four of the five major penicillin-binding proteins of enterococci. In a prospective observational cohort study involving 13 centers in Spain, Gavalda and coworkers
610 initially reported a 3-month 
cure rate of 67.4% in 43 patients with ampicillin-susceptible E. faecalis  
IE who received a 6-week course of intravenous ampicillin, 2  g e very 
4 hours, plus intravenous ceftriaxone, 2  g e very 12 hours. This experience 
was replicated in a second observational, nonrandomized cohort study involving 246 consecutive adults with E. faecalis  IE from 18 Spanish 
and Italian hospitals.
611 Of the 246 patients, 159 patients received 
ampicillin and ceftriaxone and 87 received ampicillin and an amino-glycoside. Although there were no significant differences between the two patient groups in 3-month mortality or relapses, interruption of antibiotic treatment because of adverse events was much more frequent 
in patients treated with ampicillin and an aminoglycoside than in those 
receiving ampicillin and ceftriaxone (25% vs. 1%, P < .001), primarily 
owing to the emergence of new renal failure (23% vs. 0%, P < .001). 
Based on these reports, we believe that the combination of ampicillin and ceftriaxone appears to be effective and safe for treating high-level aminoglycoside-resistant ampicillin-susceptible E. faecalis  IE and 
represents a reasonable option for patients with non–high-level aminoglycoside-resistant E. faecalis  IE who are at increased risk for 
nephrotoxicity.
Staphylococcal Endocarditis
The mortality rate in acute staphylococcal IE still approximates 25% to 40%, and the preferred antibiotic regimen is controversial. Mortality is highest for men, for patients older than 50 years, and for patients with left-sided involvement or central nervous system manifestations. In addition, injection drug users seem to have a lower mortality than do 
nonaddicts. Most S. aureus isolates, whether community or hospital 
acquired, are now resistant to penicillin G (MIC >
0.2 µg/mL). The 
current recommended regimen includes a penicillinase-resistant penicillin 
(nafcillin or oxacillin, 2  g IV e very 4 hours) or a cephalosporin (cepha -
lothin, 2  g IV every 4 hours, or cefazolin, 2  g IV every 8 hours) given 
for 6 weeks.638 The addition of gentamicin produced a synergistic effect 
against S. aureus in vitro and in experimental staphylococcal IE in 
rabbits.639 However, the combination did not improve the survival rate 
(60%) over that observed with a penicillin derivative alone in a small group of patients.
407 Combination therapy did not improve the results 
of therapy for staphylococcal IE in injection drug users,640 but the has been reviewed,619 but multiple phenotypes exist that may confer 
cross-resistance to related agents (e.g., teicoplanin, daptomycin). Molecular analyses suggest that a highly mobile genetic element (i.e., a transposon) is responsible for the rapid spread of vancomycin-resistant enterococci.
617 The molecular basis for some forms of this resistance 
(substitutions of d-alanine-d-lactate for d-alanine-d-alanine in the terminal pentapeptide chain) has been defined. IE due to vancomycin-resistant enterococci is unusual
620 but has been reported in a variety of 
clinical settings,621,622 including transplanted hearts.623
The therapy for vancomycin-resistant enterococcal IE is not estab -
lished.334 All suspected strains should be tested quantitatively (e.g., by 
determination of MIC or MBC) in vitro for susceptibility to glycopeptides, penicillins, and aminoglycosides. Teicoplanin—or, potentially, linezolid or daptomycin
624–626—may be useful, in combination with gentamicin, 
against some isolates with low-level vancomycin resistance that do not exhibit cross-resistance. Anecdotal cases have been reported of cures after therapy with linezolid,
621 a combination of quinupristin-dalfopristin 
plus ampicillin and gentamicin in addition to aortic root replacement,627 
and chloramphenicol plus minocycline.622 A triple combination of 
high-dose penicillin plus vancomycin plus gentamicin seems promising in animal models of IE induced by such resistant enterococci
628,629 and 
should be considered if in vitro susceptibility test results suggest multiply resistant isolates. The cephalosporins are relatively inactive against enterococci, even in combination with an aminoglycoside, and should not be used in this disease except potentially in place of an aminoglycoside 
and in combination with ampicillin (see later discussion).
610,611 The 
older-generation quinolones (e.g., ciprofloxacin) do not seem promising 
for the treatment of enterococcal IE.630
Native or prosthetic valve enterococcal IE caused by strains susceptible 
to penicillin, gentamicin, and vancomycin should be treated with combination antimicrobial therapy for at least 4 to 6 weeks.
560 The 
recommended regimen is as follows: aqueous penicillin G, 18 to 30 
million units IV daily in divided doses (or ampicillin 12  g/24  h in six 
equally divided doses), plus gentamicin 3  m g/kg/24  h in t hree equally 
divided doses, for 4 to 6 weeks. Gentamicin should not be given once daily for enterococcal IE. Experimental studies in enterococcal IE models show a greater reduction in vegetation bacterial densities when the aminoglycoside is administered in multidose rather than once-daily regimens.
631,632
Wilson and associates633 analyzed the experience at the Mayo Clinic 
with 56 patients who received treatment for 4 weeks with aqueous penicillin G (20 million units IV daily) combined with either strepto -
mycin, 0.5  g IM e very 12 hours, for enterococcal IE due to streptomycin-
sensitive strains, or gentamicin, 1  m g/kg IM every 8 hours, for IE due 
to streptomycin-resistant strains. Relapse rates were high (12.5%) for both regimens; however, all patients who experienced relapse had had symptoms suggestive of IE for longer than 3 months. Relapses also occurred only in patients with mitral valve involvement. All patients 
who received more than 3  m g/kg daily of gentamicin developed reversible 
nephrotoxicity (defined as a twofold increase in serum creatinine concentration), and 19% of patients receiving streptomycin for 4 weeks 
developed irreversible vestibular toxicity. Although this was not a 
prospective randomized trial, we believe that in selected cases enterococ -
cal IE may be managed with 4 weeks of combination therapy. Exceptions include mitral valve involvement, duration of symptomatic illness exceeding 3 months, enterococcal prosthetic valve endocarditis, and relapses of enterococcal IE.
A penicillin-allergic patient presents the clinician with a difficult 
therapeutic dilemma. Vancomycin as a single drug in a dose of 30  m g/
kg/24  h in t wo equally divided doses up to 1  g IV e very 12 hours, unless 
serum vancomycin levels are inappropriately low, is recommended for the treatment of enterococcal IE when patients are unable to tolerate penicillin or ampicillin, or if the infecting pathogen is resistant to these preferred agents.
334 Experience is limited, however, and because of its 
lack of bactericidal activity in vitro and poor performance in experimental IE, vancomycin should be combined with gentamicin or streptomycin.
334 
This combination is potentially more nephrotoxic, and clinical proof of the superiority of such regimens over vancomycin alone is not available. The other therapeutic option in the allergic patient is “penicillin desensitization” followed by the administration of penicillin and an 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1095Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections In their analysis, 22% of patients receiving initial low-dose gentamicin, 
versus 8% of patients not receiving this adjunct therapy, experienced decreased creatinine clearance (P = .005). Receipt of any gentamicin 
was independently associated with clinically significant decreases in creatinine clearance.
654 Based on these results and on the minimal existing 
data supporting its benefit, we believe that initial low-dose gentamicin should no longer be used for SAB or native valve endocarditis in most clinical scenarios. The role of initial low-dose gentamicin remains unresolved in a number of other settings not addressed in Cosgrove 
and colleagues’ study, including pediatric populations, patients with 
left-sided IE or prosthetic valve IE, infections caused by high–vancomycin MIC MRSA isolates (e.g., vancomycin-intermediate-resistant S. aureus  
[VISA]), and infections with persistent bacteremia.
655 If the organism 
is susceptible to penicillin (MIC <0.1 µg/mL), this agent in a dose of 
20 to 24 million units IV daily should be used. The response to treatment may be slow, often with fever and positive blood cultures lasting  
1 week.
404
The therapy for staphylococcal IE in penicillin-allergic patients and 
in cases in which the isolate is methicillin-resistant (i.e., MRSA) is problematic. A decision analysis concluded that patients with a question -
able history of immediate-type hypersensitivity to penicillin and methicillin-sensitive S. aureus IE should be skin tested before starting 
antibiotic therapy.
656 First-generation cephalosporins (as noted previously) 
generally are recommended in patients with non–life-threatening penicillin allergy, but nafcillin is more active in experimental MSSA endocarditis
657 and is preferred if the results of skin tests for penicillin 
allergy are negative. With the exception of ceftazidime, the in vivo efficacy of cephalosporins in experimental S. aureus IE has a positive 
correlation with in vitro activity (MIC) and the percentage of time during the dosing interval in which the drug serum level exceeds the 
MIC.
657 Vancomycin still is recommended for the treatment of S. aureus  
IE in patients with life-threatening penicillin allergy (e.g., anaphylaxis) 
or anaphylactoid reactions (e.g., giant urticaria) and when MRSA strains are involved; however, more recent experience suggests caution, because suboptimal outcomes have been associated with the use of this agent 
in MRSA IE. Vancomycin is less rapidly bactericidal than nafcillin in 
vitro against S. aureus, especially at high inocula (approximately 10
7 
CFUs), mimicking intravegetation densities. Vancomycin therapy for complicated SAB also has been associated with relapses, as confirmed with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis.
658 Failure rates of approximately 
40% have been documented in patients with S. aureus IE treated with 
vancomycin659 despite right-sided involvement. In another study660 using 
vancomycin-based regimens (with or without rifampin), blood cultures remained positive after 7 days of therapy in approximately 50% of patients, despite right-sided involvement and negative results in many echocardiographic studies. Patients with bacteremia or IE due to MRSA 
with high, but still “fully susceptible, ” vancomycin MICs (defined as 
≥
1.5 µg/mL661 or as 2  µg/mL662) had a worse clinical outcome than 
patients whose bloodstream MRSA isolates had a lower vancomycin MIC value.
663 The full implications of these findings, however, are not 
yet established,664 because the same association of worse clinical outcome 
in infections caused by such “high vancomycin MIC” S. aureus strains has also been documented in patients infected with MSSA who were treated with antistaphylococcal penicillins instead of vancomycin.
665,666 
Daptomycin is an alternative to vancomycin in the treatment of SAB and IE.
667 When daptomycin is used for the treatment of S. aureus IE, 
many authorities use higher doses than the FDA-approved dose of 6  m g/
kg.667 Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of treatment-emergent 
resistance during daptomycin therapy, and patients should be carefully monitored for this possibility.
668 Of interest, a recent investigation reported 
improved clinical outcomes in patients with “high vancomycin MIC” MRSA bacteremia who received early substitution of daptomycin for vancomycin.
669 For MSSA IE in patients with anaphylactoid-type β-lactam 
allergy and suboptimal responses to vancomycin, the need for β-lactam 
desensitization should be considered.670,671
The use of clindamycin to treat staphylococcal IE is associated with 
an unacceptable relapse rate and is not recommended.672 The optimal 
therapy for IE due to “tolerant” strains of S. aureus  is controversial.673,674 
One retrospective study675 suggested that patients with IE due to these 
tolerant strains had a more complicated course; however, combination mortality rate is low (2%–8%) in this subgroup of patients with this disease.
A number of studies have evaluated whether combination therapy 
permitted a shorter duration of therapy in injection drug users with S. 
aureus
 IE. Two weeks of nafcillin (2  g  IV every 4 hours) plus tobramycin 
(1 m g/kg IV every 8 hours) cured 47 (94%) of 50 injection drug users 
who had right-sided IE641 without evidence of renal failure, extrapul -
monary metastatic infectious complications, aortic or mitral involvement, meningitis, or infection with MRSA. After this original experience with “short-course” parenteral therapy for right-sided S. aureus  IE in addicts,
641 
the findings of three randomized, prospective trials of short-course regimens in this disease were subsequently published, comprising 121 patients (summarized by DiNubile).
642,643 The combination regimens 
included intravenously administered cloxacillin with either gentamicin or amikacin.
644,645,646 The overall clinical and microbiologic cure rates 
exceeded 90% in these studies. In patients with HIV seropositivity (most having CD4
+ counts greater than 300 × 106 cells) and in patients with 
large tricuspid vegetations ( ≥10 mm in di ameter), such regimens had 
excellent efficacy.646 Ribera and coworkers646 showed an efficacy of 
intravenously administered cloxacillin that was equivalent to that of the cloxacillin plus gentamicin regimen. These data suggested that parenteral β-lactam short-course therapy, with or without aminoglycoside, 
is adequate for the treatment of uncomplicated right-sided IE caused 
by methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA).
334 By contrast, another 
investigation confirmed the relative ineffectiveness of a short-course 
regimen based on a glycopeptide (teicoplanin or vancomycin) plus gentamicin for right-sided S. aureus IE.
647
Daptomycin for Staphylococcal  
Infective Endocarditis
In 2006, daptomycin, 6  m g/kg IV once daily, was shown to be noninferior 
to low-dose, short-course gentamicin plus either vancomycin or nafcillin, as appropriate, for the treatment of SAB and right-sided IE.
648 Based 
on the results of this clinical trial, daptomycin received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of SAB, including right-sided native valve IE. Because of concerns about treatment-emergent resistance to daptomycin, some authorities use 
daptomycin at higher doses (e.g., 8–10  m g/kg IV once daily) than those 
currently approved when treating complicated S. aureus infections. 
Although a single observational study from the ICE-PCS described the use of high dose (e.g., ≥
8 m g/kg daptomycin) for the treatment of 
left-sided IE,649 there are currently insufficient data on the use of 
daptomycin for left-sided IE to provide a recommendation for this indication.
Other Antibiotics for Staphylococcal  
Infective Endocarditis
Two studies have evaluated the use of predominantly oral 4-week antibiotic regimens (ciprofloxacin plus rifampin) for the treatment of uncomplicated right-sided S. aureus IE in injection drug users.
650,651 In 
each study, including one in which more than 70% of patients were 
HIV seropositive,651 cure rates exceeded 90%.
Anecdotal case reports in nonaddicts with staphylococcal IE suggest 
that the addition of gentamicin may be beneficial if there is no response 
to nafcillin therapy.652 In a multicenter, prospective trial comparing 
nafcillin alone with nafcillin plus gentamicin (for the initial 2 weeks) in the treatment of IE due to S. aureus,
653 most of the patients were 
nonaddicts who had left-sided IE. Although the combination therapy resulted in a more rapid rate of eradication of the bacteremia, the incidence of nephrotoxicity was increased and no improvement in mortality was achieved. The 2015 American Heart Association treatment 
guidelines concluded that adjunctive gentamicin therapy should not 
be used for either left- or right-sided S. aureus native valve IE,
1 based 
in part on a report that even brief courses of gentamicin for these syndromes are associated with increased risks of nephrotoxicity.
654 In 
that report, 236 patients from 44 centers in four countries were random -
ized to receive either daptomycin monotherapy or initial low-dose 
gentamicin (e.g., 3  m g/kg/24  h IV in t hree equally divided doses for 
3–5 days). In a post hoc analysis of the study results, Cosgrove and colleagues addressed the issue of gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1096Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
therapy should be used only if IE can be excluded reasonably by methods 
previously discussed. Although older studies suggested that occult IE in patients with nosocomial SAB was uncommon, the increasing importance of health care–associated S. aureus IE has now been 
definitively established.
10,14–16,693,694 In these patients, classic manifestations 
of IE are uncommon and TEE is useful in diagnosis of IE. IE due to glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus has been reported,
695,696 a n d  s o ft 
tissue infections due to vancomycin-resistant S. aureus697,698 have been 
reported and are cause for concern.
Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci
S. epidermidis  is the second most common etiologic agent in cases of 
prosthetic valve IE.668 Most of these strains (87%) are methicillin resistant 
when isolated within 1 year after valve implantation. One study699 
suggested that the optimal antimicrobial regimen for these infections is vancomycin plus rifampin, usually with the addition of an amino-glycoside. The emergence of vancomycin resistance among coagulase-negative staphylococci
700 is cause for concern. These concepts are 
discussed further in Chapter 81.
Endocarditis Due to Enterobacteriaceae or 
Pseudomonas Species
Approximately 2% of contemporary IE cases are caused by aerobic 
gram-negative bacilli.227 Health care contact and cardiac devices seem 
to have largely replaced injection drug use as the primary risk factors for acquisition of IE due to these bacteria. The prognosis is especially poor with left-sided cardiac involvement. Certain combinations of penicillins or cephalosporins and aminoglycosides have been shown 
to be synergistic against many of these strains and usually are recom -
mended.
334 For IE caused by most strains of E. coli or Proteus mirabilis,  
a combination of a penicillin, either ampicillin (2  g IV e very 4 hours) 
or penicillin (20–24 million units IV daily), and an aminoglycoside, 
usually gentamicin or a broad-spectrum cephalosporin, is suggested. Third-generation cephalosporins are extremely active against E. coli in vitro, and some (e.g., ceftriaxone) have proved effective in experimental animal models of E. coli IE,
701 even when long dosing intervals were 
used. This group of agents merits further evaluation in humans for IE due to susceptible gram-negative bacilli.
A combination of a third-generation cephalosporin and an 
aminoglycoside (either gentamicin or amikacin) is recommended 
for Klebsiella  IE. IE due to carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella  has been 
successfully treated with a combination of colistin and gentamicin in 
one case report. Certain β-lactam/β-lactamase inhibitor combinations (e.g., piperacillin-tazobactam,
702 but not ceftriaxone-sulbactam703) 
are active in vivo in experimental models of Klebsiella  IE in animals 
induced by TEM-3–producing isolates and merit further evaluation in combination with an aminoglycoside in humans with this disease. The specific aminoglycoside used is a crucial variable and cannot be predicted 
totally from MIC data alone, because pharmacodynamic characteristics 
differ markedly in animal models of IE caused by gram-negative aerobic bacilli.
704,705 Endovascular Salmonella  infections, including IE, also may 
respond to third-generation cephalosporins (see later discussion).706 
Left-sided IE due to S. marcescens is often refractory to medical  
therapy alone.432
P . aeruginosa  is a rare but potentially devastating cause of IE in 
at-risk populations. Medical therapy may be successful in P . aeruginosa  
IE involving the right side of the heart in 50% to 75% of cases. If the disease is refractory to antibiotics, tricuspid valvulectomy or “vegetec -
tomy”
707 without valve replacement is indicated.708 Although valve 
replacement often is necessary for a cure of left-sided IE due to P.  aeruginosa,
709 medical therapy alone occasionally is curative.256,430 Studies 
in animals with experimental Pseudomonas  IE710 offer a partial explanation 
for these disparate results: the penetration into vegetations and the time during which antibiotic concentrations exceeded the MBC were sig -
nificantly greater with tricuspid vegetations than with aortic vegetations for ceftazidime and tobramycin.
Problems have emerged with all potential regimens in animal models 
of this disease: (1) therapy with β-lactams (e.g., ceftazidime) has failed, 
owing to the selection of clones within valve vegetations that exhibit constitutive hyperproduction of type Id β-lactamase
711; (2) isolates therapy did not seem to be beneficial. Tolerance does seem to influence the response to therapy in some experimental animal models of S. 
aureus  IE,
676 and the use of combination regimens seems prudent when 
these strains are recovered from patients, but this is not universally accepted. Another controversial area is the adjunctive role of rifampin.
677 
Because of the emergence of resistant strains, this drug is ineffective alone. Results of in vitro studies on rifampin combinations with either β-lactam agents or vancomycin frequently are contradictory, and clinical 
outcomes with experimental IE induced by S. aureus depend on which 
drug in the combination exerts the greatest bactericidal activity in vivo.
678 
The question of the role of rifampin for SAB was definitively addressed in the ARREST trial, a randomized double-blind trial of 758 adults with SAB (including 33 with IE), who were randomized to receive either rifampin or placebo, in addition to standard therapy. Adjunctive 
rifampicin did not provide any clinical benefit but was associated with 
an increased frequency of adverse events.
679 Given the results of the 
ARREST trial, rifampin should not be recommended in patients with SAB or native valve IE.
Therapy for Highly Resistant Staphylococci
The therapy for IE due to S. aureus displaying borderline suscepti-
bility to antistaphylococcal penicillins, first described by McDougal  
and Thornsberry in 1986,680 is also a matter of debate. Experimental 
models of IE induced with these isolates suggest that nafcillin (or oxacil -
lin) or ampicillin-sulbactam should be effective.681,682 Several agents, 
including teicoplanin, fosfomycin, and fluoroquinolones, are active against MRSA in vitro and are as rapidly bactericidal as vancomycin in experimental animal models of IE due to MRSA,
683–685 although resistance 
to the quinolones has emerged during therapy, and frank failures have been recorded.
671,686,687 For patients with MRSA IE not responding to 
vancomycin, several choices are available, including the addition of rifampin or gentamicin (or both) or other regimens including daptomy -
cin,
648 linezolid, quinupristin-dalfopristin, minocycline, trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole,688 fosfomycin plus imipenem,689 or ceftaroline alone or 
in combination with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.690,691 Ceftaroline 
is active against MRSA with reduced susceptibility to vancomycin and daptomycin, including heteroresistant VISA (hVISA), VISA, vancomycin-resistant S. aureus  (VRSA), and daptomycin-nonsusceptible S. aureus  
(DNSSA). S. aureus also displays a “seesaw” effect in which isolates 
display increased susceptibility to nafcillin as vancomycin susceptibility decreases—also seen with ceftaroline—which led to improved results with ceftaroline against hVISA and VISA strains in an in vivo model. Experience with these drugs in humans with left-sided or prosthetic S. aureus IE is limited.
Treatment of S. aureus Bacteremia Without 
Proven Infective Endocarditis
Bayer and associates671,692 identified four parameters predictive of the 
presence of IE in 72 patients with SAB in a prospective study: (1) the absence of a primary site of infection, (2) community acquisition of infection, (3) metastatic sequelae, and (4) valvular vegetations detected 
with echocardiography. In another study of 724 prospectively identified 
patients with SAB, Fowler and associates observed key clinical identifiers of complicated bacteremia, including (1) community acquisition, (2) persistent fever at 72 hours, (3) skin examination suggesting the presence of acute systemic infection, and (4) positive blood culture 48 to 96 hours after the initial positive blood culture.
402 Although these clinical 
identifiers are useful methods to assist in the identification of clinically unsuspected IE, the role of echocardiography increasingly is being recognized.
Two decision analyses have shown the role of TEE in identifying 
the presence of IE and in helping to define the duration of antibiotic therapy. Heidenreich and colleagues
342 found that in patients whose 
prior probability of IE was between 4% and 60%, initial use of TEE provided the greatest quality-adjusted survival at a cost within the range for commonly accepted health interventions. Rosen and colleagues
343 
found that the use of TEE to determine the duration of therapy (2 weeks vs. 4 weeks) in patients with intravascular catheter–associated SAB was cost-effective and provided better outcomes than empirical 2-week or 4-week treatment strategies. While definitive trials are awaited, short-term 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1097Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections without meningitis due to intermediate (MIC >0.1–1.0  µg/mL) or high-
level (MIC ≥2.0 µg/mL) penicillin-resistant pneumococci can be treated 
with high-dose penicillin or a third-generation cephalosporin.334 If IE and 
meningitis are simultaneously present, high doses of cefotaxime or ceftri -
axone (2  g IV e very 12 hours) should be used.334 IE due to pneumococcal 
isolates resistant to cefotaxime (MIC ≥2.0 µg/mL) should be treated with 
vancomycin plus rifampin. Important to note, these recommendations are 
based on current levels of resistance and could be revised based on future  
MIC characteristics.334
The gonococci that cause systemic infection usually are highly 
susceptible to penicillin.720 IE due to these organisms and the menin -
gococci can be treated effectively with the same penicillin regimen recommended for pneumococcal IE. Although IE due to penicillin-resistant gonococci (on the basis of either β-lactamase production or 
chromosomally mediated mechanisms) has not been reported, ceftriaxone 
has been used successfully to treat gonococcal IE.
721
Fungal Endocarditis
Since the 1990s, the incidence of fungal sepsis has undergone a striking 
increase. Fungal IE now occurs principally in the setting of health care contact (e.g., after surgery or prolonged parenteral therapy, in compro -
mised hosts such as neonates), whereas the importance of injection drug use as a risk factor for this condition has apparently diminished 
in recent series.
501 Although the survival rate in patients treated before 
1974 was less than 20%,305 survival in the current era has increased to 
40% to 70%, coincident with improved diagnostic techniques.501,722 The 
preferred mode of therapy has not been determined. The use of antifungal 
agents alone has been almost universally unsuccessful in achieving a cure of this disease. The addition of surgical measures to antifungal therapy may result in an improvement in prognosis, but to date there 
is insufficient clinical experience. If fungal IE is diagnosed, a combined 
medical-surgical approach is usually recommended.
334,503,723
Historically, the mainstay of antifungal drug therapy is amphotericin 
B. This agent is toxic and produces multiple side effects, including fever, chills, phlebitis, headache, anorexia, anemia, hypokalemia, renal tubular acidosis, nephrotoxicity, nausea, and vomiting. Drug toxicity is common and often necessitates alterations in the regimen. To reduce toxicity, 
lipid formulations of amphotericin B are preferred.
724 Dosages and the 
technique of administration are given in Chapter 40A.
After 1 to 2 weeks of amphotericin B therapy at full dosages, surgery 
probably should be performed. If isolated tricuspid IE is present, total 
tricuspid valvulectomy usually can be considered in individual cases. 
Rarely, removal of the vegetation alone is curative. Valve replacement 
is necessary for left-sided fungal IE. The duration of antifungal therapy after surgery is empirical, but 6 to 8 weeks usually is recommended.
It is possible that combination antifungal therapy may improve 
the poor survival rate associated with fungal IE. Some strains of Candida  spp. and Cryptococcus neoformans  are inhibited in vitro by 
concentrations of 5-fluorocytosine achieved with the oral administration 
of 25  m g/kg/dose 4 times daily. Synergism between 5-fluorocytosine 
and amphotericin B has been documented for these yeasts in vitro 
and in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis. This combination 
was fungicidal and perhaps instrumental in the cure of one case of Aspergillus  IE. In the rabbit model of IE due to C. albicans, however, 
the addition of 5-fluorocytosine did not improve the rate of eradica -
tion of fungal organisms from the vegetation over the rate observed with amphotericin B alone. Potentiation of amphotericin B activity by rifampin has been noted for virtually all strains of Candida  spp. tested 
and for a few isolates of H. capsulatum. The therapeutic advantage of 
the addition of 5-fluorocytosine or rifampin to amphotericin for fungal IE requires further investigation, but initial results in animal models of disseminated candidiasis are not encouraging.
725 On the basis of animal 
model data,726 high-dose itraconazole may be of value in the treatment 
of Aspergillus  IE but valve replacement probably will remain imperative 
for a cure.727 Amphotericin B is more effective than fluconazole for the 
prophylaxis and treatment of experimental Candida  IE,728 and it remains 
the agent of choice. However, the use of fluconazole apparently has led to long-term cures of Candida  IE in a limited number of patients
503,729–731 
when valve replacement was considered to be contraindicated. This agent should be tried after an initial course of amphotericin B in this showing aminoglycoside resistance due to permeability defects emerge 
during therapy
712; (3) no postantibiotic effect of β-lactams against P.  
aeruginosa  is evident in vivo,713 necessitating frequent (or continuous) 
drug administration; and (4) the alginate exopolysaccharide inhibits 
clearance of mucoid strains from the vegetation via cellular or antimi -
crobial mechanisms. This inhibition can be reversed partially by the coadministration of alginase in animal models of Pseudomonas  IE.
714
Treatment failures in Pseudomonas  IE in humans also have been 
related to the selection of isolates with an enhanced production of type Id β-lactamase.
715 Based on clinical experience,413,433,434 however, the 
preferred regimen for IE due to P . aeruginosa  is high-dose tobramycin 
(8 m g/kg/day IV or IM in divided doses every 8 hours), with maintenance 
of peak and trough concentrations of 15 to 20  µg/mL and 2  µg/mL or 
less, respectively, in combination with either an extended-spectrum penicillin (e.g., ticarcillin, piperacillin, azlocillin) or ceftazidime or cefepime in full doses. The toxicity associated with this regimen is low; combination treatment should be given for a minimum of 6 weeks. The 
use of quinolones (in combination with an aminoglycoside) seems 
promising for the treatment of Pseudomonas  IE on the basis of favorable 
results in animal models
711 and in humans,716 but the development of 
stepwise resistance during therapy may limit the efficacy of this class of drugs in the future. Based on limited experimental data,
717 ceftazidime-
tobramycin is preferred over aztreonam-tobramycin for this disease. Approximately seven cases of P . aeruginosa  IE have been treated suc-
cessfully with imipenem plus an aminoglycoside,
718 but the potential 
for the development of resistance exists with any of these regimens.
Ceftriaxone or ampicillin-sulbactam should be considered treatments 
of choice for IE due to HACEK group bacteria.334 Despite limited clinical 
data, ciprofloxacin is an accepted alternative therapy.334 Duration of 
treatment for HACEK IE should be at least 4 weeks for native and prosthetic valve infections.
334 The previously mentioned recommendations 
offer only a rough guide for initial treatment. It is imperative that each isolate be subjected to quantitative sensitivity testing in vitro to ensure the optimal selection of antibiotics.
Endocarditis Due to Anaerobic Bacilli
Although IE caused by anaerobic bacilli is uncommon, the mortality rate is high. B. fragilis  is isolated in many of these cases and is responsible 
for most fatalities. Most strains of anaerobic bacilli, with the exception of B. fragilis, are sensitive to penicillin in vitro, and use of this agent, 
at a dose of 20 to 24 million units IV daily, is the recommended 
therapy.
476,477 However, only about one-third of B. fragilis  strains show 
an MIC for penicillin that is less than 0.25  µg/mL; and penicillin is 
only a bacteriostatic agent against these strains (the MBC is invariably 
>100 µg/mL), and relapse is common. Although clindamycin and 
chloramphenicol readily inhibit most strains of B. fragilis, they lack 
bactericidal activity and they are poor therapeutic choices, although several patients have been cured with high-dose penicillin, chloram -
phenicol (1  g IV e very 6 hours), or clindamycin (600  m g IV every 6 
hours). Owing to excellent bactericidal activity in vitro and the serum concentrations attained, metronidazole, ticarcillin plus clavulanic acid, 
piperacillin plus tazobactam, imipenem, and meropenem are reasonable 
choices for therapy for anaerobic IE.
478
Pneumococcal, Gonococcal, and 
Meningococcal Endocarditis
IE caused by pneumococci, gonococci, or meningococci is now very rare. 
Pneumococcal IE must be considered in any patient with pneumococcal bacteremia, especially if meningitis is present. This form of IE is most common in alcoholics; the organism generally attacks the aortic valve and results in valvular insufficiency, often with perivalvular abscess 
formation or pericarditis. Type 12 pneumococci cause more than 20% 
of the cases of pneumococcal IE but are a rare (5% of cases) cause of pneumococcal pneumonia. Penicillin, 20 to 24 million units IV daily, 
cefazolin (2  g IV e very 8 hours), or a third-generation cephalosporin for 
4 weeks is recommended to treat IE due to highly penicillin-susceptible pneumococcus. Although the impact of penicillin resistance on the outcome of pneumococcal IE is unresolved, one series of 63 patients with pneumococcal IE found that left-sided heart failure, but not penicillin resistance, was associated independently with a higher risk for death.
719 IE 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1098Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
Decisions regarding surgical intervention in patients with IE should be 
individualized and should be made with input from the infectious diseases physician, the cardiologist, and the cardiovascular surgeon.
334 
Patients with IE and CHF should be immediately evaluated for potential surgical therapy.
334,738 Other generally accepted indications for potential 
surgical intervention during active IE are as follows: (1) more than one serious systemic embolic episode; (2) uncontrolled infection; (3) inef-fective antimicrobial therapy (e.g., in fungal IE); (4) resection of mycotic aneurysms; (5) most cases of prosthetic valve IE caused by more 
antibiotic-resistant pathogens (e.g., staphylococci, enteric gram-negative 
bacilli); and (6) local suppurative complications, including perivalvular or myocardial abscesses. The major indications in the past have been persistent infection and CHF
739–741 in adults and children.742 CHF during 
active IE was the indication for surgery in 86% of 108 patients undergoing valve replacement at Stanford University Medical Center from 1963 to 1984.
741 The importance of individualizing decisions for valve replacement 
surgery among patients with S. aureus  prosthetic valve IE, basing these 
decisions on the presence of traditional indications (e.g., heart failure), has been recently emphasized.
743
Despite the widespread use of TTE and TEE in patients with IE, 
the indications for surgical intervention based on echocardiographic features remain controversial. The American Heart Association Com -
mittee on IE, working from data reported in the recent literature, identified the following echocardiographic features in IE as being 
associated with a potential increased need for surgical intervention: (1) 
persistent vegetations after a major systemic embolic episode; (2) increase in vegetation size after appropriate antibiotic therapy; (3) acute mitral insufficiency; (4) valve dehiscence, perforation, or rupture; (5) periannular extension of infection (e.g., paravalvular abscess or fistula); and (6) large ( >
1 cm in di ameter) anterior mitral valve vegetations.334 However, 
findings of a recent study suggest that early surgery based solely on large vegetation size in patients with left-sided native valve IE was associated with worse clinical outcome.
744 The most common causes of 
death in IE, in approximate order, are CHF ,738 neurologic events,227 
septic complications,745 embolic phenomena, rupture of a mycotic 
aneurysm, complications of cardiac surgery, lack of response to anti -
microbial therapy, and prosthetic valve IE.334
Owing to the inherent differences between medically managed patients 
with IE and patients undergoing surgical intervention for IE, the optimal role and timing of valve surgery in IE are controversial. However, a growing body of evidence supports the importance of early surgical intervention. A large, well-designed propensity analysis
540 found that 
early valve surgery is associated with increased survival in patients with IE. These findings were confirmed in a pivotal clinical trial
746 randomizing 
76 patients with left-sided endocarditis, severe valve disease, and large vegetations to early surgery (within 48 hours of randomization) or conventional treatment. The primary end point—a composite of in-hospital death, embolic events within 6 weeks of randomization, or 
recurrence of IE at 6 months—was significantly less frequent in the 
early-surgery group than in the conventional-treatment group (3% vs. 28%; P = .02). Limitations of this trial, such as the infrequency of cases 
caused by S. aureus and the relatively young and otherwise healthy 
study subjects, reduced the generalizability of the findings. A retrospective cohort study stratified adults with complicated left-sided native valve IE, using baseline features, into four groups of prognostic severity.
747 
When acute aortic regurgitation complicated by CHF supervenes in IE, the mortality rate still exceeds 50%. The classic physical findings associated with chronic aortic regurgitation often are absent in these patients.
345 The current trend is to perform early surgery in this group 
of patients, because nothing is gained by delay. The merits of early valve replacement surgery were confirmed in 1972.
748 In a series of 28 patients 
from Birmingham, Alabama, with acute aortic regurgitation, 4 had no CHF and were managed medically, and all survived. In contrast, 7 of 11 patients with mild CHF and 7 of 8 patients with moderate-to-severe CHF died during medical therapy, often suddenly and with pathologic 
evidence of coronary emboli and myocardial infarction. Four of five 
patients with moderately severe CHF who underwent surgery survived. These data suggest that early surgical intervention may improve survival in this setting. Valvular regurgitation on Doppler echocardiography is not predictive of death in the absence of CHF .
749setting or used for long-term suppressive therapy. The roles of lipid and liposomal amphotericin complexes and voriconazole in the treat -
ment of fungal IE are largely unknown. Recent data of echinocandins for the treatment of fungal IE are encouraging, however, and suggest that this class of antifungal agents may be reasonable in selected cases  
of fungal IE.
732
Q Fever Endocarditis
More than 1300 well-documented cases of Q fever have been reported733; 
the mortality rate exceeds 65%.480,481,483,484,485 Prolonged therapy ( ≥4 years) 
with doxycycline and either trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or rifampin was considered to be the regimen of choice in the past (see Chapter 188).
480,734–736 A fluoroquinolone may be a useful addition to doxycy -
cline.480,736 The acidic conditions of the phagolysosome, where the 
organism resides, may inhibit antibiotic activity.736 Cure of the IE after 
treatment with a combination of doxycycline and hydroxychloroquine to alkalinize the phagolysosome for 1 year was reported in 20 patients.
480 
Valve replacement often is required, and long-term prognosis is guarded. Careful follow-up to detect recrudescence of infection is essential. A combination regimen of doxycycline plus hydroxychloroquine for at least 18 months allowed shortening the duration of therapy and resulted 
in reduction in the number of relapses.
733 The Raoult group recently 
published their results with more than 100 patients with Q fever 
endocarditis followed over 26 years (median follow-up, 100 months). Based on their results, we believe that doxycycline plus hydroxychlo -
roquine are the drugs of choice and that 18 months of therapy is adequate 
for treatment of native valve Q fever endocarditis versus 24 months for 
prosthetic valve endocarditis unless certain serologic markers persist (requiring sequential monitoring of these parameters).
Infective Endocarditis Due to Chlamydiae
Based on limited experience, a combination of valve replacement and prolonged ( >3 months) tetracycline therapy seems justified in IE due 
to chlamydiae. Rifampin has cured at least one case of chlamydial IE after therapy with tetracyclines failed, but exposure to this agent rapidly induces the emergence of drug resistance in 
C. trachomatis  in tissue 
culture.737 The role of combination regimens (e.g., rifampin plus 
erythromycin or tetracycline) merits further study.
Culture-Negative Endocarditis
The therapy for culture-negative IE in nonaddicts is controversial, but the regimen usually used “covers” enterococci, the HACEK group, and Abiotrophia  and Granulicatella  spp. For native valve culture-negative 
IE, this regimen consists of a combination of ampicillin-sulbactam, 
12 g/24  h in f our equally divided doses, plus gentamicin 3  m g/kg/24  h 
in three equally divided doses plus ciprofloxacin for 4 to 6 weeks.334 
Early ( ≤1 year) culture-negative prosthetic IE should be treated with 
appropriately dosed vancomycin (for 6 weeks) plus gentamicin (at doses 
indicated previously for 2 weeks) plus cefepime (6  g IV daily in three 
equally divided doses for 6 weeks) plus rifampin (900  m g PO or IV 
daily in three equally divided doses for 6 weeks).334 Culture-negative 
IE involving prosthetic valves that have been in place for longer than 1 year should be treated as listed previously for native valve endocar -
ditis.
334 If staphylococcal IE is likely, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin 
or a cephalosporin in full dosage should be substituted in the afore -
mentioned regimen. If clinical improvement occurs, some authorities recommend discontinuation of treatment with the aminoglycoside after 2 weeks. The other agents should be continued for a full 6 weeks of 
treatment. Continued surveillance for the causative agent and careful 
follow-up are mandatory. An analysis of any correlation between the response to empirical antimicrobial therapy and survival was performed in 52 patients with culture-negative IE
518: 92% of the patients who became 
afebrile within the first week of therapy survived, compared with only 50% of those whose fever persisted longer than 7 days. Most deaths were caused by major systemic emboli or uncontrollable CHF due to valvular insufficiency.
Surgical Therapy
Valve replacement has become an important adjunct to medical therapy in the management of IE and now is used in almost half of the cases.
7 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1099Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections tricuspid valve replacement usually is required, however, owing to 
progressive right-sided heart failure. Persistent fever, recurrent pulmonary emboli, or vegetations demonstrable with echocardiography usually do not necessitate tricuspid valvulectomy in this setting.
756 In addition, 
many surgeons contend that a return to the use of illicit drugs and reinfection of the valve after initial cure are contraindications to reoperation.
757
Outstanding reviews on the indications for surgery during therapy 
for IE are available.740,758–761 The rationale for surgical intervention, 
including major and minor criteria for valve replacement, is discussed in detail. A point system weighting multiple factors was devised by Alsip and colleagues
758 to assist in decision making concerning surgery 
in patients with active IE. The value of this system remains to be defined. It has become apparent that most patients with prosthetic valve IE (except patients with late disease caused by penicillin-sensitive viridans streptococci) require valve replacement for consistent cures. Valve 
replacement also is necessary in a significant proportion of patients 
with IE on native valves after a medical cure; aortic involvement is a predictor of the need for surgery.
762
Suppurative Thrombophlebitis
Suppurative thrombophlebitis is an inflammation of the vein wall that is caused by the presence of microorganisms and frequently associated with thrombosis and bacteremia. In the following discussion, suppurative thrombophlebitis is differentiated from catheter-related sepsis. Sup -
puration of the vein wall usually is absent in intravenous catheter–related 
sepsis and in bacteremia secondary to contaminated intravenous fluid, 
although it does occur. Suppurative thrombophlebitis may be classified into four forms: superficial, central (including pelvic), cavernous sinus, and infection of the portal vein (pyelophlebitis). The last two conditions have become rare since the introduction of antibiotics. In contrast, superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis has been increasing steadily in incidence since the introduction of the plastic intravenous cannula. Superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis secondary to intravenous fluid therapy first was described in 1947,
763 when 93 cases were reported, 43 
of which were amenable to surgical therapy.
Epidemiology
In 1973, approximately 1 of every 4 hospitalized patients received intravenous therapy, for a total of more than 10 million patients annually in the United States.
764 It is estimated that more than half of the 40 
million patients admitted to US hospitals each year undergo intravascular catheterization.
765 Suppurative thrombophlebitis is a particular problem 
in burned patients, for whom it represents a common cause of death due to infection. In several large series of burned patients,
766–769 sup -
purative thrombophlebitis developed in 4% to 8% and increased in frequency if cutdowns were performed. Suppurative thrombophlebitis also is found in other hospitalized patients (especially patients with cancer and those receiving corticosteroid therapy).
770,771 Seven cases 
were recognized during an 18-month period in Charleston, South Carolina, and 35 cases were identified over 7 years in Louisville, 
Kentucky.
772 Eight cases were encountered during an 8-month period 
in Johannesburg, and suppurative thrombophlebitis was estimated to 
represent a minimum incidence of 0.12% of all admissions.773 In a study 
using strict diagnostic criteria, 29 episodes of suppurative thrombo -
phlebitis in 27 patients were identified in a large Air Force hospital over a period of 4 years.
774 Using data from the National Nosocomial Infection 
Study, Rhame and associates775 estimated the overall incidence of sup -
purative thrombophlebitis as 88 cases per 100,000 discharges, but this disease is underreported. Suppurative thrombophlebitis also is common among drug addicts, particularly when injections are made in large, central veins (e.g., jugular or subclavian veins).
776 This condition is 
unusual during childhood777 but may occur as a complication related 
to intravenous therapy.
Catheter-related sepsis without suppurative thrombophlebitis is much 
more common and affects at least 50,000 to 100,000 patients per year in the United States.
778,779 The risk for this complication is approximately 
40 times higher with plastic cannulas (8%) than with steel or “scalp vein” cannulas (0.2%). Irritation to the vein wall, with the subsequent development of suppurative thrombophlebitis, is more common with The hemodynamic status of the patient, not the activity of the 
infection, is the crucial determining factor in the timing of cardiac valve replacement; that is, development of CHF in the setting of IE generally dictates valvular surgery regardless of the acuteness of the infection or the amount of antibiotics already received by the patient.
750 
The hemodynamic severity of the acute aortic regurgitation may be assessed by determining the degree of mitral valve preclosure by echocardiography. If premature closure of the mitral valve occurs before the Q wave of the electrocardiogram, the left ventricular end-diastolic 
pressure is very high, and surgical intervention is required urgently. 
Nothing is gained by temporizing, even if only a few hours of antibiotics can be administered. If CHF persists despite digoxin, diuretics, and other therapeutic modalities (e.g., left ventricular afterload reduction), surgery also is indicated. In 80 patients subjected to aortic valve replace -
ment for IE, the surgical cure rate was 72%. There were no instances of subsequent infection of the prosthesis, but 16% of the patients developed paravalvular regurgitation. This latter complication usually was controlled easily with medical therapy. Organisms visible on Gram 
stain, positive cultures, or annular abscesses at the time of surgery are 
associated with late complications.
745 Although the topic has not been 
systematically studied, most authorities suggest that if there is evidence of active IE at the time of valve replacement surgery, antibiotic therapy should be continued postoperatively for at least several weeks. Such evidence might include vegetations that remain culture positive and 
vegetations with significant polymorphonuclear inflammation. An 
investigation by Morris and colleagues217 found that dead bacteria may 
persist for months in sterile vegetations and concluded that only valve 
cultures should be considered when determining the duration of antibiotic therapy after valve replacement for IE. By contrast, routine valve cultures in patients undergoing native valve replacement for indications other 
than clinically suspected IE do not seem warranted.
751
The optimal timing of valve replacement surgery for left-sided IE 
is another unresolved clinical question. Because of the observed decrease 
in embolic risk during the initial 1 to 2 weeks of medical therapy, early surgical intervention could potentially avoid a devastating embolic event while subjecting the patient to the risks of valve replacement surgery. 
Therefore the strategy for surgical intervention to avoid major emboliza -
tion remains individualized.
334 The importance of timing of surgery 
following cerebral emboli in IE patients was evaluated in 198 patients. 
Fifty-eight patients who underwent surgery within 1 week of stroke were compared with 140 patients who underwent surgery 8 or more days after stroke. After adjustment for other confounding factors, no 
statistically significant difference in 1-year mortality was present among 
the early-surgery recipients (95% CI, 0.802–1.650).
752 The high risk of 
exacerbation is prohibitively high in the first month after hemorrhagic stroke. In a multicenter study of IE with hemorrhagic stroke, mortality was higher when valve surgery was performed within 4 weeks of the hemorrhagic event, compared with later surgery (75% vs. 40%, respec -
tively).
753 Based on these data, the American Heart Association Committee 
on Endocarditis has made the following recommendations: Valve surgery may be performed in IE with stroke or subclinical cerebral emboli 
without delay if intracranial hemorrhage has been excluded with imaging studies and neurologic damage is not severe (i.e., coma). In patients 
with major ischemic stroke or intracranial hemorrhage, it is reasonable to delay valve surgery for at least 4 weeks.
1 It is important to emphasize 
that these recommendations are intended to serve as general guidelines in the absence of definitive evidence.
In contrast to left-sided IE, in which CHF is the usual indication 
for surgical intervention, persistent infection is the indication for surgery 
in more than 70% of patients with right-sided IE. Most patients are 
injection drug users, with IE caused by organisms that are difficult to eradicate with antimicrobial therapy alone (e.g., fungi, gram-negative aerobic bacilli). Tricuspid valvulectomy or vegetectomy with valvuloplasty is the procedure of choice for refractory right-sided IE.
754,755 Valve 
replacement at a second operation is advised only if medical management fails to control the hemodynamic manifestations and the patient has ceased using illicit drugs. Combination antimicrobial therapy should be continued for 4 to 6 weeks postoperatively. These patients may develop 
mild-to-moderate right-sided heart failure, but this is tolerated easily, 
and the success rate with this approach is greater than 70%. Eventual 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1100Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
and suppurative thrombophlebitis usually develops days to weeks after 
the cutdown incision is healed,767,768 arguing against a local cutaneous 
source in burn patients.
The venous system draining the pelvis includes the intervertebral 
venous plexus, the lumbar venous plexus, the superficial and deep veins of the abdominal wall, and the hemorrhoidal plexus. Any component 
of this system may be affected in pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis, 
but the veins draining the uterus, including the ovarian veins and the inferior vena cava, are involved most often.
792 Thrombus formation may 
result from stasis of blood flow due to the gravid uterus or from the hypercoagulable state of parturition. Normal residents of the vaginal or perineal bacterial flora gain access to the thrombus via the bloodstream or regional lymphatics. There often is an associated endometritis or 
parametritis. Septic pulmonary emboli and metastatic abscess formation 
are common. Septic thrombosis of the portal vein often is associated with hepatic abscess (occurring in five of seven patients in one series
793); 
an obvious extrahepatic source of intraabdominal infection is usually absent.
Pathologic Changes
Regardless of the vein involved, the pathologic changes are similar. The vein is enlarged, tortuous, and thickened. There may be associated perivascular suppuration or hemorrhage or both, and the vein lumen usually contains pus and thrombus. Microscopically, endothelial damage, fibrinoid necrosis, and thickening of the vein wall are evident. Micro -
abscesses may be present in the vein wall or in the surrounding tissue.
772,794 
Gross periphlebitic abscesses are not unusual and may be evident on physical examination. Thrombi frequently extend beyond the area of suppuration. In an autopsy series of peripheral suppurative thrombo -
phlebitis in burned patients, extension of the clot into the great central 
veins was found in 18% of the cases.
767,769 Metastatic abscess formation 
and septic pulmonary emboli with infarction are found in more than 
50% of the fatal cases. These conditions may result from bacterial liquefac -
tion and fragmentation of affected thrombi within the vein, because clot liquefaction is noted commonly in autopsy series.
Clinical Manifestations
Superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis often is difficult to identify, because local findings of inflammation may be absent. The disease occurs more frequently when plastic catheters are inserted in the lower extremi -
ties, a common practice in burned patients. In 132 cases of superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis reported from the burn center at Fort 
Sam Houston, Texas, the distribution of affected vessels was as follows: 
lower extremity (predominantly saphenous system), 100; upper extremity (predominantly antecubital fossa), 32; jugular vein, 7; and iliac vein, 4. The mean duration of preceding venous cannulation was 4.81 days, and the latent interval from removal of the catheter to the development of symptoms ranged from 2 to 10 days.
766,768 Fever was present in more 
than 70% of the cases, but rigors were rare. Local findings, such as warmth, erythema, tenderness, swelling, or lymphangitis, were present in only 32% of the patients; however, bacteremia with signs of systemic 
sepsis was found in 84%. Septic pulmonary emboli with secondary 
pneumonia—often the first diagnostic clue—occurred in 44%. Pneu -
monia, sepsis, or metastatic abscess formation was the only manifestation of this disease in two-thirds of the cases. The late onset of pneumonia or sepsis in a burned patient demands the careful inspection of all previously cannulated veins, because untreated suppurative thrombo -
phlebitis is associated with a high mortality rate. In another report, a dramatic increase in the overall insulin daily requirement heralded the onset of suppurative thrombophlebitis.
795 In these series, less than 50% 
of the cases were diagnosed antemortem.767
In contrast to the experience with suppurative thrombophlebitis in 
burned patients, most medical and postoperative patients develop the disorder in the upper extremities and signs of local inflammation are present more commonly (94% in one series).
776 In a retrospective series 
of 21 children with superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis, 48% involved an upper extremity.
796 Many of the affected patients are elderly 
with debilitating diseases, and often they are receiving antibiotics when superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis supervenes. As noted, the duration of intravenous catheterization is an important risk factor; 68% polyethylene catheters than with catheters constructed of Teflon or Silastic material. Central venous catheterization has been employed for more than 35 years for hemodynamic monitoring, total parenteral nutrition, and infusion of drugs. The exact incidence of suppurative thrombophlebitis of the central veins commonly cannulated (i.e., jugular, subclavian, venae cavae) is unknown. However, recent evidence clearly shows that catheter-associated thrombosis is common in specific popula -
tions. For example, in a recent prospective cohort study, venous ultrasonography and targeted physical examination were blindly per -
formed in 48 patients with upper torso central venous catheter–associated SAB to identify the prevalence of venous thrombosis. With ultrasonog -
raphy, definite or possible thrombosis was present in 34 (71%) of 48 patients. The sensitivity of all physical examination findings, either alone or in combination, was low ( ≤24%).
780 Autopsy series have revealed 
central venous thrombosis in 37% of catheterized subjects, but this diagnosis rarely is recognized, because most patients are asymptomatic. When examined with phlebography at the time of catheter withdrawal, 42% of catheters were found to have sleeve thrombi and another 8% 
revealed veno-occlusive thrombi.
781 In addition, sepsis has been reported 
in approximately 7% of patients receiving total parenteral nutrition and 
other medications by the central route.
When thrombosis and bacterial or fungal contamination or sepsis 
coexist, suppurative thrombophlebitis may intervene.782 The role of 
hypercoagulability due to gene polymorphisms in catheter-associated infection and thrombosis has been evaluated
783 but is unresolved. At 
least 50 cases of suppurative thrombophlebitis of the great thoracic veins have been reported in the literature,
784–786 but this is almost certainly 
a gross underestimate of the problem. Eight cases in 8 years due to Candida  spp. alone were observed at the University of Wisconsin.
787 
As another example, 53 cancer patients with catheter-related SAB were identified from 1986 to 1989 at the MD Anderson Cancer Center; septic thrombosis was diagnosed in 12 (23%) and suspected in another 3 (6%) of these patients. Five of the 12 patients developed deep-seated complica -
tions, including septic pulmonary emboli and endocarditis, compared with 2 of the 38 patients without septic thrombosis ( P < .01). Persistent 
fever despite appropriate antistaphylococcal agents was an early clue to the diagnosis.
788 Septic atrial thrombosis, occasionally with a coexistent 
Budd-Chiari syndrome, has complicated Broviac catheter insertion in infants.
789
Superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis is a complication of either 
dermal infection or use of an indwelling intravenous catheter. Pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis is associated with parturition, abortion, gynecologic surgery, or a pelvic abscess. This is a disease of women of childbearing age, with most cases occurring between the ages of 15 and 
40 years (mean, 20 years). In 123 cases in two reports,
790,791 the predispos -
ing conditions were as follows: vaginal delivery, 39 cases; cesarean section, 
19 cases; abortion, 33 cases; and major gynecologic surgery, 32 cases. During a 9-year period in Atlanta, 27 cases of postpartum septic pelvic thrombophlebitis were identified in more than 54,000 deliveries.
791 The 
relative risks for this condition were as follows: parturition, 1 in 2000 (highest in the inner-city population); septic abortion, 1 in 200; and 
major gynecologic surgery, 1 in 800. The incidence of suppurative thrombophlebitis increases proportionally with the degree of trauma 
to the pelvic tissues.
Pathogenesis
The pathogenesis of suppurative thrombophlebitis (discussed in detail by Tornos and colleagues
762) is poorly understood. A thrombus may 
act as a nidus for local entrapment and colonization of bacteria that gain access to the site from another focus. This is analogous to the proposed role of NBTE in the pathogenesis of IE. When superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis is associated with intravascular cannulas, 
the route of infection may involve (1) migration from the skin between 
the catheter wall and perivascular tissue, (2) contamination of intravenous fluid, (3) contamination of the hub, or (4) hematogenous dissemination from an infected focus elsewhere. The relative contributions of these four routes are unknown, although most investigators believe that migration of organisms down the external surface of the catheter is the most important route of invasion.
765 The predominant organism in burn 
wounds, P . aeruginosa, is a rare cause of suppurative thrombophlebitis, 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1101Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections studies have been used to detect superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis, 
but experience is limited.
Other laboratory findings in patients with superficial suppurative 
thrombophlebitis (e.g., leukocytosis) are nonspecific. The chest radiograph may reveal multiple peripheral densities or a pleural effusion consistent 
with pulmonary emboli, infarction, abscess, or empyema. The diagnosis 
of an associated subperiosteal abscess is difficult; bone and gallium scans usually reveal hyperperfusion without definite osteomyelitis, routine radiographs almost always show no abnormalities, and CT scans often show only soft tissue swelling with obliteration of tissue planes. The use of high-resolution CT scans may improve these results.
798 The 
diagnosis of deep central vein suppurative thrombophlebitis in the thorax is established with venography, with the demonstration of thrombi in a patient with positive blood cultures, but CT with contrast enhancement is probably just as sensitive and is noninvasive. CT scans are useful in 
the diagnosis of suppurative phlebitis of the great central veins
800,801 and 
the portal vein778; gas may be detected in the venular lumen, which is 
diagnostic of this condition. Experience with MRI802 and 111In-labeled 
leukocytes is meager.
In most cases of pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis, there is a 
peripheral blood leukocytosis, and the urinalysis is usually normal. 
The chest radiograph may reveal multiple septic pulmonary emboli. 
Intravenous pyelography can be useful in disclosing ureteral obstruc -
tion. Real-time ultrasonography is helpful in delineating the location 
and extent of the thrombus, but the ileus that often is associated with this infection may render interpretation difficult. Ultrasonography also may show the presence of a periuterine, adnexal, or tubo-ovarian mass. CT reveals low attenuation with contrast enhancement in sup -
purative venous thrombosis and is sensitive in the diagnosis of pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis.
803,804 MRI may be even more sensitive 
and can differentiate fresh thrombus ( ≤1 week old) from organizing or 
subacute thrombus.805 These sensitive and noninvasive techniques may 
lead to an increased recognition of pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis, earlier diagnosis, and improved outcome. The roles of newer diagnostic techniques, such as pelvic venography, transuterine phlebography, 
111In-labeled leukocyte scanning, and laparoscopy, still are undefined. 
Because bacteremia is shown in only 20% to 30%754,755,770 of cases of 
pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis, negative blood cultures do not exclude the diagnosis.
Etiologic Agents
S. aureus was the causative agent in 65% to 78% of the cases of super -
ficial suppurative thrombophlebitis reported before 1968. Many cases now are also caused by a member of Enterobacteriaceae, especially Klebsiella-Enterobacter  spp.
770,776 These agents are acquired nosocomially 
and often are resistant to multiple antibiotics. Almost all patients with superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis due to gram-negative aerobic bacilli or fungi are receiving broad-spectrum antibiotics at the time the disease manifests. In a review of 86 cases compiled from the literature 
reported in the 1970s, the organisms isolated were as follows: Klebsiella-
Enterobacter  spp., 34 cases; Providencia  spp., 5 cases; Proteus  spp., 5 cases; 
Serratia  spp., 3 cases; E. coli, 6 cases; P . aeruginosa, 3 cases; S. aureus, 
15 cases; C. albicans, 9 cases; S. epidermidis,  4 cases; and enterococci,  
2 cases.
775,776
Suppurative thrombophlebitis due to gram-negative pathogens and 
E. faecalis  is more common (than S. aureus ) in patients with significant 
intraabdominal pathology.774 S. aureus, other gram-positive cocci, and 
Candida  spp. were more common when this risk factor was absent. 
Multiple organisms are isolated in 14% of cases. Anaerobic isolates are extremely rare but have been described in pediatric patients.
806 A distinct 
clinical syndrome of suppurative thrombophlebitis due to C. fetus, typically in immunocompromised patients, has been described. An increase in the incidence of superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis due to Candida  spp. has been reported
807,808; all patients were receiving 
antibiotics without hyperalimentation. None was neutropenic, and none was receiving corticosteroids. In one series of seven patients observed in a 15-month interval,
808 all had concomitant or preceding bacterial 
infections and had received multiple antibiotics (mean, five antibiotics) for at least 2 weeks. Preceding candidal colonization at other sites (e.g., sputum, urine) often was present.
808of implicated cannulas had been left in place for at least 5 days.775,776 
The frequency of catheter manipulations also has been linked to catheter infections.
797
Subperiosteal abscesses of adjacent long bones may complicate 
superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis in children.798 The local findings 
in this condition, including bone tenderness, erythema, warmth, and limitation of motion with occasional extension into the joint space, may overshadow the suppurative thrombophlebitis itself. Septic deep vein thrombosis of the femoral vessels with swollen, tender, and inflamed 
inguinal areas has been described in injection drug users of heroin and 
cocaine. Contiguous pelvic bone osteomyelitis is unusual.
Suppurative thrombophlebitis of the thoracic central veins occurs 
in critically ill patients with central catheters in place, in patients receiving total parenteral nutrition, and in patients after long-term cannulation with Broviac, Hickman, and other devices. The systemic findings associ -
ated with sepsis overshadow any local findings in venous occlusion (e.g., superior vena cava syndrome), which are rare in this setting. This syndrome should be suspected in any septic patient if bacteremia or 
fungemia fails to resolve on removal of the central catheter and institution 
of appropriate antimicrobial therapy.
Pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis usually develops 1 to 2 weeks 
after delivery or postoperatively and is associated with high fever, chills, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and a protracted course.
791 Flank pain may result from ureteral obstruction by enlarged 
veins. Abdominal tenderness, usually in the right lower quadrant, may be mild to severe. Approximately 80% of cases are unilateral on the right side, 14% are bilateral, and only 6% are unilateral and left sided. This distribution is believed to result from compression of the right 
ovarian vein at the pelvic brim by the enlarged uterus with retrograde 
flow on the left and protection from ascending infection. The physical examination findings may be normal, however. A tender vein can be palpated in 30% of the cases at pelvic or abdominal examination.
790,792 
The uterus usually is freely movable. Spread of the process to the femoral vein with edema and tenderness of the lower extremity is unusual. Many of these patients are extremely ill, with an acute or chronic course characterized by little or no response to antibiotics and 
the development of multiple small septic pulmonary emboli. Because 
many of the manifestations are nonspecific, the differential diagnostic listing is broad and includes acute appendicitis, ureteral obstruction, torsion of an ovarian cyst, pyelonephritis, broad ligament hematoma, parametritis, endometritis, perinephric abscess, pelvic abscess, small bowel volvulus, pelvic inflammatory disease, sickle cell crisis, and ectopic  
pregnancy.
Laboratory Findings
Bacteremia is a hallmark of superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis, occurring in 80% to 90% of patients with the diagnosis. Gross pus within the vein lumen is found in about half of the cases, and this finding establishes a diagnosis of suppurative phlebitis. If infection of a venous catheter is suspected, the catheter should be removed and 
cultured. The results may be misleading, however, because even though bacteria are isolated in 60% of the cases, a positive culture does not 
correlate with inflammation.
799 The following semiquantitative culture 
technique was developed in an attempt to differentiate catheter-related sepsis from suppurative thrombophlebitis. After preparing the skin with alcohol, the catheter is removed with sterile forceps (avoiding skin contact) and is placed in a sterile tube for transport. The catheter then 
is cut aseptically into 5.7-cm pieces, and each section is rolled across 
the surface of a 5% sheep blood agar plate. The growth of more than 15 colonies on the plate correlates well
799 with the presence of venous 
infection. In the few cases of suppurative thrombophlebitis studied by means of this technique, all catheters yielded confluent growth. Because 
the standard 5.7-cm catheter retains 0.7 to 1.5  m g of moisture on its 
surface and the plate growth has exceeded 1000 colonies in every case of suppurative thrombophlebitis, bacterial counts must exceed 10
6 
organisms per gram in the catheter wound. These titers are similar to those found with other types of infected wounds. This technique is simple, rapid, and inexpensive and may prove useful in establishing the need for exploratory venotomy. Simple needle aspiration of the 
suspected vein also may be diagnostic.
126 111In-labeled leukocyte imaging 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1102Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
therapy should be continued for at least 6 weeks. Resection of the 
involved vasculature in most patients with suppurative thrombophlebitis of the great central veins is technically impossible. Medical therapy is usually sufficient.
784,787,810 The recommended approach is catheter 
removal, full-dose anticoagulation with heparin,810,811 and parenteral 
antibiotic therapy. Although tissue plasminogen activator therapy has been used successfully in this setting,
812 experience is limited, and its use 
must be considered experimental. Septic thrombosis of the portal vein usually responds to systemic antimicrobial therapy directed at bowel flora with or without percutaneous drainage of any associated hepatic  
abscesses.
793
The duration of therapy for septic phlebitis of deeper veins is unsettled: 
2 to 3 weeks after catheter removal is suggested, with at least 4 weeks for S. aureus  disease.
788 Experience with more potent agents (e.g., third-
generation cephalosporins) for suppurative thrombophlebitis due to gram-negative bacilli is scant, but trials are indicated. Because heparin may precipitate vancomycin with a partial loss of antibacterial activity at concentrations present in intravenous lines,
811 these drugs should 
not be administered simultaneously through the same intravenous access line. In contrast to Candida  IE, suppurative thrombophlebitis of the 
great central veins due to Candida  spp. is curable medically, but antifungal 
regimens must be continued longer than is usually adequate for superficial 
suppurative thrombophlebitis. Based on limited data,
787 amphotericin 
B at a daily dose of 0.7  m g/kg, to a total dose of at least 22  m g/kg, plus 
5-fluorocytosine (25  m g/kg/dose 4 times daily), is recommended after 
catheter removal. A lipid formulation of amphotericin is usually preferred 
to conventional amphotericin. Fluconazole (400  m g/day) or an echi -
nocandin for 4 to 6 weeks is an alternative in patients who are not able 
to tolerate amphotericin B. Surgery may be essential in patients with suppurative thrombophlebitis of the thoracic or neck veins if perivascular collections are present.
The optimal therapy for pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis still is 
controversial. Because anaerobic streptococci and Bacteroides  spp. 
predominate, the initial antibiotics of choice are aqueous penicillin G 
(20 million units IV daily) plus either clindamycin (450–600  m g IV 
every 6 hours) or metronidazole (500–750  m g IV every 8 hours). The 
use of heparin is debated. The addition of heparin after several days of unsuccessful treatment with antibiotics itself may produce an antipyretic effect.
813 In one series of 46 patients with pelvic suppurative thrombo -
phlebitis,791 including 7 with massive ovarian vein involvement and 15 
with septic pulmonary emboli, 42 patients become afebrile within 7 days (mean, 2.5 days) while receiving penicillin, chloramphenicol, and heparin. Four patients required exploratory laparotomy, and pelvic abscesses were found in 3 of them. These results argue strongly that 
medical therapy alone often is effective, but no controlled studies on 
the use of heparin have been done. If medical therapy is unsatisfactory, surgery with drainage of abscesses and, usually, ligation of the implicated venous system must be performed. Some authorities
792 believe that 
ligation of the inferior vena cava or ovarian vein, or both, should be performed in all of these cases, but the evidence for this approach is inconclusive.
Prevention
The incidence of superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis can be reduced by the same preventive procedures that are used for intravenous cannulas in general (see Chapter 300). These include the use of “scalp vein” cannulas whenever possible; avoidance of lower-extremity cannulations; insertion under aseptic conditions; secure anchoring of the cannula; 
and frequent replacement (at least every 48–72 hours) of intravenous 
fluid bottles, cannulas, and connecting tubing. Although neomycin–polymyxin B–bacitracin ointment is effective in reducing the incidence of cutdown infections,
814 use of this combination agent has not shown 
consistent benefit with intravenous cannulas.815
A detailed discussion of prevention strategies for vascular catheters 
has been published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.816 
When clinical signs of bacteremia occur in a patient receiving intravenous fluids, the following steps should be taken: (1) blood culture specimens should be obtained; (2) intravenous administration should be discon -
tinued and all cannulas removed; (3) the intravenous fluid should be 
cultured; (4) the cannula should be cultured semiquantitatively on blood Malassezia furfur also is seen as an opportunistic pathogen of deep 
vein catheters, especially in premature infants
809 and other pediatric 
patients receiving lipid emulsions, but this risk factor is not present in 
all patients.
The responsible agents in pelvic suppurative thrombophlebitis are 
poorly defined because blood cultures often are negative, and most 
investigators did not use adequate anaerobic techniques. The organisms 
that have been isolated, in approximate order of frequency, are Bacteroides  
spp., microaerophilic or anaerobic streptococci, E. coli and other 
coliforms, and β-hemolytic streptococci. The predominance of Bacteroides  
may be related to the heparinase produced by this organism. A prolonged latent period (3 weeks) may occur before blood cultures become positive. The more extensive use of anaerobic isolation techniques and routine culturing of surgical specimens may serve to clarify the role of anaerobic bacteria in this entity.
Presumptive Therapy
Superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis is a lethal iatrogenic disease, and surgery often is necessary for cure. The first reported successful cure of suppurative thrombophlebitis followed surgical ligation of the vein by Hunter in 1784.
810 All authorities strongly endorse surgical 
excision as an integral part of treatment. In a review of 24 patients,767 
14 were managed medically alone, and all died, either directly from suppurative thrombophlebitis with persistent bacteremia or secondary to metastatic complications. Of 10 patients who underwent surgical exploration, 7 survived, and only one of the three deaths was attributable 
to suppurative thrombophlebitis. Antibiotics also should be used in the 
treatment of this disease; initial empirical treatment with a semisynthetic 
penicillin (e.g., nafcillin, 2  g IV e very 4–6 hours) plus either an ami -
noglycoside (e.g., gentamicin, 1.0–1.7  mg/kg IV or IM every 8 hours) 
or a third-generation cephalosporin (e.g., cefotaxime) or a quinolone (e.g., ciprofloxacin) is recommended, because members of Enterobac -
teriaceae or staphylococci are the usual etiologic agents. The optimal duration of therapy is unknown and largely empirical. The role of antifungal therapy for superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis due to 
C. albicans is controversial.
807,808 Most of these infections can be cured 
by vein excision. However, because of the propensity of this pathogen 
to disseminate hematogenously to organs (e.g., retina, kidneys), a 10- to 14-day course of amphotericin B, echinocandin, or fluconazole is advised postoperatively, pending further data. Antifungal therapy is mandatory 
in immunosuppressed patients or if signs of metastatic complications 
(e.g., endophthalmitis) develop.
If superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis is a likely diagnosis, an 
exploratory venotomy may be necessary. This procedure should be performed proximal to the suspected site; the vein should be ligated and then “milked” in an attempt to express purulent material for inspec -
tion by Gram stain and culture. If no pus is apparent, further surgical exploration is necessary to establish the diagnosis. In older literature, simple ligation was thought to be sufficient, but the rate of relapse with 
ongoing sepsis was high. The segment of vein and all its involved tributar -
ies should be totally excised. Radical surgery from the ankle to the groin may be required in some burn patients. Nevertheless, local or 
regional anesthesia alone often is sufficient (approximately 90% of cases) for vein excision. Backbleeding, indicative of a patent lumen, should be evident at the point of vein transection. Vein excision usually is followed by prompt ( ≤24 hours) defervescence. If systemic symptoms, 
bacteremia, or marked local manifestations persist after vein excision, 
reexploration is necessary, with careful attention to total removal of all 
involved veins and drainage of contiguous (e.g., periphlebitic, subperi -
osteal) abscesses.
The role of less radical surgery in therapy for superficial suppurative 
thrombophlebitis has not been addressed adequately. Although the literature supports vein excision, this experience stems largely from burn centers. Despite infection with gram-negative bacilli or Candida  
spp., six of eight children with superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis were cured by means of local incision and drainage of the involved 
site plus parenteral antimicrobial therapy.
774 Radical surgery with 
extensive excision perhaps can be reserved for patients in whom these 
measures fail. Delayed closure is preferred over primary wound closure. If osteomyelitis is documented in the adjacent long bones, antimicrobial 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1103Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections manifestations during IE has an adverse effect on the ultimate mortality 
rate. These lesions remain a significant cause of morbidity and mortality due to intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage, especially in young people in developing countries, where acute rheumatic fever, rheumatic heart disease, and resultant IE still are prevalent.
830 Nine intracranial 
mycotic aneurysms associated with IE were treated in one neurosurgical unit in South Africa during an 18-month period, and five patients died.
830
In addition, aortic root complications, including abscess or mycotic 
aneurysm, are associated with a poor outcome from IE. In one review,831 
aortic root complications were documented in 23 (46%) of 50 cases of aortic valve IE over a 6-year period; prosthetic valve involvement was common, and the surgical mortality rate and incidence of postop -
erative aortic regurgitation were higher in the group with aortic root  
complications.
Mycotic aneurysms are extremely rare in childhood
832 and when 
present are usually associated with IE, cardiovascular malformations, or connective tissue disorders. A specific disease entity first described in 1970 is aneurysm associated with umbilical artery catheterization in neonates.
833 The infecting organism is usually staphylococcal. By 
1992, 34 cases had been reported, with the following distribution833: 
descending thoracic aorta, 14 cases; abdominal aorta, 10 cases; iliac arteries, 6 cases; and multiple sites, 4 cases.
Pathogenesis
Four different mechanisms have been postulated to produce infection of the arterial wall: (1) formation of mycotic aneurysms secondary to septic microemboli to the vasa vasorum (“embolomycotic aneurysms”),
834 
(2) extension from a contiguous infected focus, (3) hematogenous seeding of the intima during bacteremia originating from a distant infection, and (4) trauma to the arterial wall with direct contamination.
835 Embo -
lomycotic aneurysms usually occur in patients with active IE, and the incidence of this type has declined since antibiotics became available. The source of infection is the cardiac vegetation, with production of arterial emboli that lodge in the vasa vasorum, often at points of bifurca -
tion of the affected artery.
Contiguous foci of infection (e.g., a caseous tuberculous lymph node 
or pyogenic vertebral osteomyelitis) may extend directly to major vessels, with subsequent aneurysm formation. The normal arterial intima is very resistant to infection. If this lining is altered by congenital malforma -
tions (e.g., coarctation of the aorta) or by acquired disease (especially atherosclerotic plaques or ulcers), resistance to infection is lowered and the surface may become colonized by bloodborne organisms. This hypothesis is analogous to the central role of NBTE in the pathogenesis 
of IE. An intraluminal thrombus associated with an atherosclerotic 
vessel also may serve as a nidus for colonization. Atherosclerosis accounts for more than 74% of secondarily infected aneurysms. Luetic arteritis and cystic medial necrosis also have been associated with secondary infection.
823
Trauma to the arterial wall with subsequent infection has been 
documented in injection drug users (needle trauma)836 and has been 
associated with gunshot wounds, vascular surgery, cardiac catheterization, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty,
837,838 intravascular stent 
placement,839 radial artery catheterization,840 implantable ports for 
intraarterial chemotherapy,841 and puncture of a femoral artery for 
analysis of arterial blood gases.817 These events, if associated with 
contamination, usually lead to pseudoaneurysm formation in a peripheral artery and a contiguous abscess in extravasated blood.
Pathologic Changes
Infection of the arterial tree has been recognized by pathologists for more than a century. Virchow first showed local dilation of the arterial wall at the site of a septic embolus in 1847. Infection superimposed on an atherosclerotic aorta first was reported by Koch in 1851. Stengel and Wolfroth
821 collected 217 cases of mycotic aneurysms in 1923. These 
lesions probably are underreported, and pathologic material has been scant in recent years.
Most mycotic aneurysms that develop during the course of IE are 
situated in the sinus of Valsalva or in the supravalvular proximal thoracic 
aorta ( >70% develop proximal to the aortic arch). Aneurysms are more agar, as described by Maki and associates799; and (5) appropriate antibiotic 
therapy should be instituted. If clinical signs of sepsis and bacteremia 
persist despite appropriate antibiotic therapy, an intravascular focus (e.g., suppurative thrombophlebitis at a previously cannulated vein) should be sought, as discussed previously.
INFECTIVE ENDARTERITIS AND 
MYCOTIC ANEURYSMS
The term mycotic aneurysm was coined by Osler in 1885 to describe a 
mushroom-shaped aneurysm that developed in a patient with subacute bacterial endocarditis. At that time, the term mycotic  was used to refer 
to all microorganisms. At present, the use of mycotic  has been restricted 
specifically to fungal infections, but mycotic aneurysm still is used for 
all extracardiac (or intracardiac) aneurysms of infectious etiology except for syphilitic aortitis. This term also has been used to describe preexisting aneurysms secondarily infected from contiguous or distant foci and pseudoaneurysms arising from trauma or iatrogenic causes. Endarteritis  
refers to inflammation of the arterial wall, which may occur with or without coexistent aneurysmal dilation. Unless an aneurysm or coarcta -
tion of the aorta is present, infective endarteritis is usually a postmortem diagnosis. Because infected aneurysms differ in their pathogenesis, the various classifications (Table 80.8) are examined separately in the fol -
lowing discussion.
817 Infections of arterial prosthetic devices are discussed 
in detail in Chapter 82 and are not considered here.
Epidemiology
Although incidence figures are unavailable, a localized suppurative process of the arterial wall is rare. Estimates derived from autopsy series of aortic aneurysms are available but ignore infections at other locations in the arterial tree. In a review of more than 22,000 autopsies performed at the Boston City Hospital from 1902 to 1951,
818 aortic 
aneurysms were found in 1.5%. Mycotic aneurysms constituted only 2.6% of these lesions, however. In another review of 178 aneurysms found among more than 20,000 autopsies at the Mayo Clinic from 1925 to 1954,
819 only 6 were believed to be of infectious origin. Similarly, 
in a review820 of 77 pure iliac artery aneurysms in 48 patients from a 
21-year period, only 2 aneurysms (4.2%) were mycotic in origin. In the preantibiotic era, infected aneurysms were confined predominantly to patients with IE; in a series of 217 cases reported in 1923,
821 86% were 
associated with IE. With the advent of antibiotics, mycotic aneurysms in IE have become less prevalent and hematogenous seeding of a previ -
ously damaged arteriosclerotic vessel constitutes the most common mechanism. In a retrospective review of all emergency department 
cases seen at one city public hospital from 1994 to 1999, the annual 
prevalence of arterial mycotic aneurysms among injection drug users  
was 0.03%.
822
Because most of these lesions arise in areas of severe atherosclerosis, 
they occur in men more often in a ratio of 3  :  1, a nd the average age at 
presentation has been 65 years. The mean age for mycotic aneurysms that occur with IE is younger (approximately 40 years), and men and women are affected approximately equally. Estimates of the incidence 
of mycotic aneurysms in patients with IE range up to 15%.
823–826 Two 
percent to 4% of IE patients develop intracranial mycotic aneurysms,826,827 
although a neurologic presentation is common in patients with IE (noted 
in 16%–23% of cases), and at least 30% of the patients develop neurologic manifestations.
828,829 As discussed previously, the presence of such 
TABLE 80.8  Classification of Mycotic Aneurysms
PREEXISTENT 
ARTERIAL STATUS SOURCE OF INFECTION
Normal
Atherosclerotic
Aneurysm
Arterial prosthesisIntravascular
Septic embolism from the heart
Bacteremia with seeding
Extension from adjacent 
endocardial focus on erosion
Extravascular
Contiguous site of infectionIatrogenic
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1104Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
Clinical Manifestations
When mycotic aneurysms occur during the course of IE, manifestations of 
the underlying disease may be evident. Peripheral middle cerebral artery aneurysms constitute 2.5% to 6.2% of all intracranial aneurysms
826–830,852 
and usually are secondary to infection. Intracranial mycotic aneurysms are usually clinically silent. Hemorrhage results in severe headache of sudden onset with rapid deterioration in the level of consciousness. The time interval from diagnosis of IE to the onset of hemorrhage is 
variable (0–35 days), with a mean of 18 days.
827
Some lesions produce premonitory or herald neurologic signs, 
including focal deficits and seizures. However, these findings are relatively 
common in patients who have IE without intracranial aneurysms, and the differential diagnosis and decisions regarding arteriography are difficult.
853 A sudden focal deficit consistent with embolism is seen in 
approximately 23% of patients and should prompt arteriography.853 A 
high proportion of patients with intracranial mycotic aneurysm with severe, unremitting, localized headache, often in association with homonymous hemianopsia (as a herald sign), was reported in one series.
854 Stroke syndromes may be seen and manifest as focal neurologic 
deficits, headache, confusion, meningismus, seizures, or coma.828,829 
Contrary to popular belief, most intracranial hemorrhages associated with IE were found to be caused not by ruptured mycotic aneurysms but by septic necrotic arteritis.
828 Symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage 
was associated with a mortality rate of 60% to 90% in that study. Patients also may present with bilateral cortical blindness.
Unusual location or etiology of an intracranial mycotic aneurysm 
suggests a diagnosis other than IE.
855 Mycotic aneurysms tend to 
occur more commonly in women of a younger age than does IE in general. They must be differentiated from aneurysms secondary to tumor emboli (especially choriocarcinoma or atrial myxoma), trauma, arteritis, or moyamoya disease and congenital aneurysms. 
Visceral artery aneurysms are uncommon but when present are almost 
uniformly caused by infection
835 or by polyarteritis nodosa. The most 
common location is in the superior mesenteric artery. Although superior mesenteric artery aneurysms account for only 8% of visceral artery aneurysms overall, most are of infectious origin.
856 Symptoms 
include colicky abdominal pain of acute onset, but the presentation is variable. Hepatic artery aneurysms may produce colicky right upper quadrant pain, fever, jaundice, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage
857 or 
hemobilia.858 More than 190 cases of this entity have been reported in the 
literature; 75% were extrahepatic, and 25% were intrahepatic. Ruptured mycotic aneurysm of the celiac artery may manifest as hemoptysis  
or hemothorax.
859
If the external iliac artery is involved, a triad of clinical signs may be 
present: (1) pain in the lower extremity (especially the anterior aspect of the thigh) with quadriceps muscle wasting and a depressed knee jerk; (2) arterial insufficiency of the extremity with coolness, pallor, and depressed pulses; and (3) bacteremia.
860 Distal aneurysms (e.g., 
affecting the femoral artery) occasionally have unusual presenting manifestations, including arthritis and purpura in the affected limb. If 
more peripheral arteries are involved (usually with a pseudoaneurysm), a tender, diffusely indurated mass is present in 92% of cases. The mass 
is pulsatile, with an associated bruit, in 50% to 60% of patients, and 20% to 30% have decreased peripheral pulses, skin changes, or even frank gangrene.
836 Local suppuration, petechiae, and purpura are often 
present, and the lesion may be confused with localized cellulitis or an abscess without consideration of vascular involvement. In users of illicit drugs, the brachial, radial, or carotid arteries or arteries of the lower extremity may be involved.
822 Only 50% of these patients 
are febrile on admission.822 A superimposed septic arthritis also may  
be present.861
Although most infected aortic atherosclerotic aneurysms occur in 
elderly men, no pathognomonic findings exist to separate these patients from patients with bland, uninfected aneurysms. Fever is the most helpful differentiating sign (present in >70% of patients), because it is 
uncommon in patients with bland aneurysms. Back pain or abdominal 
pain occurs in about one-third of the cases. A draining cutaneous sinus 
may be present. Differentiation of an infected aneurysm from the entity of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm may be difficult. Inflam -
matory abdominal aortic aneurysms first were described in 1935 and common in the right or posterior sinus and may be complicated by acquired shunts (rupture into the right ventricle is the most common), tamponade, coronary artery occlusion, or an atrioventricular conduction block.
842 Less commonly, major visceral, intracranial, and peripheral 
arteries are involved. Intracranial mycotic aneurysms characteristically develop in the distribution of the middle cerebral artery at peripheral bifurcation points,
829,831 as opposed to a more proximal location for most 
congenital aneurysms. Multiple intracranial lesions may be present. Mycotic aneurysm of the extracranial carotid arteries is rare (26 case reports
843), but most develop in association with IE, usually due to 
S. aureus. Fewer than 10% are found in the upper extremities, but these arteries usually are not examined adequately with pathologic or radiologic techniques. Infrafemoral aneurysms during IE or after its treatment
844 also are unusual. Multiple lesions are identified in many 
IE patients with mycotic aneurysms.834 Saccular forms seem to be more 
common than fusiform ones.818 The aneurysms vary in size from 1  mm  
to more than 10  cm. As mentioned earlier, many of these aneurysms 
arise from emboli to the vasa vasorum, and occasionally the embolus can be shown grossly and microscopically. Acute and chronic inflamma -
tion is found diffusely through the arterial wall; necrosis, hemorrhage, abscess, and bacterial colonies all may be present in the sections. The elastica and muscularis layers usually are obliterated, but the intima 
often is intact. Rupture with surrounding hemorrhage and infection may  
be present.
Secondary infection of a preexisting aneurysm is found most com -
monly in the abdominal aorta (accounting for 70% of the cases), because 
this is the area most frequently and severely damaged by atherosclerosis. Ascending and descending aortic aneurysms each account for about 15% of the cases. The primary bacteremia most commonly originates from distal infections in soft tissue, lung, bone, or joint. The arterial infection usually begins in the distal abdominal aorta or iliac arteries 
as a focus of inflammation on an ulcerated atheromatous plaque. The 
wall of the aneurysm is thinned, and there is focal acute and chronic inflammation that may lead to arterial rupture. Even so-called bland aortic aneurysms commonly have some mild inflammation (characterized by a predominance of lymphocytes and mononuclear cells) in the wall; however, infected atherosclerotic aneurysms are characterized by acute inflammation with a predominance of polymorphonuclear leukocytes, necrosis, abscess formation, hemorrhage, and visible bacterial colonies. This lesion probably is underreported, because the focal suppuration 
may be limited in extent and overlooked unless routine culture and 
histologic sections are examined on every aortic aneurysm specimen. Erosion and rupture may be present without aneurysmal dilation. Lumbar or thoracic osteomyelitis is present in one-third of the cases
823 and may 
precede the aneurysm or develop secondary to contiguous spread from the vascular infection.
When contamination accompanies arterial injury, an infected 
pseudoaneurysm may result. These lesions are located in the extremities 
in more than 80% of the cases and are characterized by more extensive 
local tissue inflammation than is seen with the two types mentioned previously. Infection as a cause of pseudoaneurysm formation is increas -
ing: 17 of 57 (30%) lesions seen in the 1980s
845 were infected. When 
endarteritis develops after angioplasty, it usually follows a second procedure or repuncture, and this scenario should suggest the diagnosis; all cases have been due to S. aureus.
833,838 Distal emboli, pseudoaneurysm, 
and coexistent osteomyelitis are present in more than 50% of the cases. Infective aortic root aneurysm also has occurred after coronary artery bypass graft surgery, with disastrous results.
834,846,847 Subclavian artery 
aneurysms may be present, with systemic findings plus unilateral upper extremity rash or splinter hemorrhages.
848 Nineteen cases of intracavern -
ous carotid artery aneurysms have been reported,849 usually occurring 
with meningitis with or without IE.
Of special interest are mycotic aneurysms in patients undergoing 
renal transplantation. Among 640 renal transplants performed at the University of Minnesota over 8 years, perinephric infections developed 
in 28 patients, and 8 of these patients developed mycotic aneurysms.
850 
These lesions were evident clinically 1.5 to 4 months after transplantation. 
Six were located in the external iliac artery and one each in the internal iliac artery and aorta. All of these lesions were secondary to contiguous foci of infection in the deep tissues of the transplant wound.
851,852
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1105Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections Two-dimensional echocardiography (TTE or TEE) is a useful 
noninvasive technique for documenting mycotic aneurysms in the 
vicinity of the aortic valve (e.g., sinus of Valsalva, supravalvular, sub -
valvular), and this technique is adjunctive to aortic root angiography preoperatively.
877 Infective endarteritis or mycotic aneurysm in the 
vicinity of a patent ductus arteriosus also has been visualized successfully with 2D and Doppler echocardiography.
878,879 Intraoperative epicardial 
echocardiography has been used to facilitate the surgical approach. If a hepatic aneurysm is suspected, liver scanning and ultrasonography performed before angiography may be helpful.
857
Etiologic Agents
Before the antibiotic era, mycotic aneurysms associated with IE usually were caused by the more “virulent” organisms, such as the β-hemolytic 
group A streptococci, pneumococci, or H. influenzae.  With the decline 
of these organisms as causal agents in IE, most are now due to streptococci or staphylococci ( ≥60% of cases).
When bacteria seed a preexisting atherosclerotic vessel, the etiologic 
agents are markedly different from those found in mycotic aneurysms associated with IE. Gram-positive organisms cause approximately 60% of these lesions, but gram-negative bacilli (chiefly salmonellae) are isolated in 35%. Staphylococci are implicated in 40% of the cases overall,
825 
and more than two-thirds of these are S. aureus. The risk for vascular 
infection in adult patients with non-Typhi Salmonella  bacteremia has 
been reviewed.880 Salmonellae cause 20% of the cases and involve, in 
order of frequency, the aorta and femoral and iliac arteries. Only 1 in 24 such cases reported before 1974 was above the renal arteries.
881 Lumbar 
osteomyelitis due to Salmonella  was present in one-third of cases. The 
presumed portal of entry is the gastrointestinal tract.882 S. enteritidis 
strains are isolated in 40% of cases, which is proportional to their overall rate of isolation in the United States. S. enterica serotype Choleraesuis, 
an uncommon clinical isolate, seems to be particularly pathogenic for this condition, because this species was isolated in 32% of the cases.
883 
S. enterica serotype Typhi rarely is implicated in this disorder. Salmonella  
infections of aortic aneurysms first were reported in 1948. The predilec -
tion for involvement by this organism is not understood, but salmonellae tend to seed abnormal tissues during bacteremia (e.g., hematomas, 
malignant tumors, cysts, gallstones, bone infarcts, altered endothelium, 
aortic aneurysms). It has been estimated that 25% of patients older than 50 years with Salmonella  bacteremia have an intravascular focus 
of infection.
884,885
Arizona  spp. (especially Arizona hinshawii ) are closely related to 
Salmonella  spp., cause similar clinical syndromes, and infect aortic 
aneurysms in elderly diabetic men.886 The following organisms also 
produce infection in atherosclerotic aneurysms: E. coli, P . aeruginosa,887 
Proteus  spp., Citrobacter freundii, Klebsiella-Enterobacter spp., Brucella  
spp.,888 S. marcescens, C. fetus,889 L. monocytogenes  (17 reported cases890,891), 
B. fragilis, gonococci, group B streptococci,892 corynebacteria, C. bur -
netii,893 Clostridium septicum,894 enterococci, and pneumococci.895 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis  is a rare cause of aortic mycotic aneurysms. 
Of the 41 cases reported in the literature from 1945 to 1999, 75% seemed 
to result from erosion of the aortic wall by a contiguous focus and 25% seemed to result from direct seeding of the aortic intima or via the vasa 
vasorum.
896
Fungal mycotic aneurysms are rare in the intracranial compartment, 
and only 13 definite cases had been reported by 1981.897 The most 
common etiologic agents are Aspergillus  spp., agents of mucormycoses, 
and Candida  spp. The first two agents may involve intracranial arteries 
by direct extension from foci of sinusitis. One case of multiple intracranial aneurysms due to Coccidioides immitis  that occurred during therapy 
for basilar meningitis has been described. Fungal mycotic aneurysms 
tend to involve larger, more proximal vessels at the base of the brain 
(11 [61%] of 18 cases were carotid or basilar), compared with those involved in bacterial cases of IE,
898 and may complicate intracranial 
surgery. Aspergillus  mycotic aneurysms have occurred after trans-
sphenoidal resections. Fungi also may cause endarteritis in the aorta or on aortic grafts, including Aspergillus  or Bipolaris  spp.
899,900 Mycotic 
aneurysms with subarachnoid bleeding may complicate the course of neurobrucellosis.
901 Tuberculous aneurysms are now uncommon; when 
present, they originate from contiguous foci of infection.account for 5% to 10% of abdominal aortic aneurysms; the lesions are usually infrarenal and often lead to ureteral obstruction, owing to the 
densely adherent fibrotic mass surrounding the vessel.
862 In a large series 
of 2816 patients undergoing repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms, 127 
(4.5%) had inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms.863 Most patients 
(123 of 127) were men and heavy smokers. Inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms are associated with an elevated erythrocyte sedimenta -
tion rate (73% of cases), weight loss, symptoms (back or abdominal pain in 30%–50%), and a high operative mortality rate.
Continuing bacteremia despite “appropriate” antimicrobial therapy 
in an elderly (especially diabetic) patient who has no signs of IE suggests an infected intravascular site. The aneurysm is palpable in 50% to 60% of the cases.
824,835 In most cases, the onset is insidious, and a low-grade fever 
may be present for several months before diagnosis. The nonspecificity of the clinical manifestations is reflected by the 75% preoperative rupture rate for this entity. Rupture may occur into the retroperitoneal space or peritoneal cavity (56%), pleural cavity (9%), duodenum (12%), esophagus 
(6%), mediastinum (3%), or pericardium (3%). The most common site 
of aortoenteric fistula is between the aorta and the third portion of the duodenum. Short periods of herald bleeding are common warning signs before exsanguinating hemorrhage occurs.
864 Severe pain and the rapid 
onset of shock usually accompany rupture of the aneurysm.
Laboratory Findings
There are no characteristic laboratory abnormalities in this group of diseases. When mycotic aneurysms occur with IE, alterations suggesting the underlying disease may be present. CT is useful in patients with neurologic manifestations of IE, especially for the demonstration of intracranial hemorrhage. CT is not sufficiently sensitive for the detection 
of intracranial mycotic aneurysms
828,829; however, these lesions are not 
likely when the appearance on CT scan is completely normal. Diagnosis 
of intracranial mycotic aneurysm can be established by four-vessel cerebral arteriography, although 2D and 3D helical CT angiography,
865 
magnetic resonance angiography,829,866 and the less dangerous and invasive 
procedure of intravenous digital subtraction angiography867 are promising. 
Magnetic resonance angiography may detect aneurysms only 2 to 3  mm  
in diameter, but false-negative results occur in 8% to 10% of such studies; this modality cannot substitute for selective angiography, although techniques and resolution are evolving.
868
Patients with infected aortic aneurysms usually have a leukocytosis 
(65%–83%), but this is nonspecific and may be present even if the aneurysm is bland. Bacteremia is found in 53% to more than 90% of the cases, is continuous, and usually does not clear with antibiotic therapy alone. Evidence for a primary source of bacteremia (e.g., pneumonia, 
osteomyelitis) may be present but is absent in 46% of the cases.
823 The 
abdominal aorta is noted to be calcified on abdominal radiographs in 
47%,825 and anterior vertebral body erosion has been shown in 18%. A 
lack of calcification suggests infection, because 70% to 80% of bland aneurysms show calcification on abdominal radiographs. Certain procedures (e.g., intravenous pyelography, ultrasonography, CT
869) may 
reveal the presence of an aneurysm but often are not satisfactory for 
preoperative detail. The absence of intimal calcification, an associated 
perianeurysmal fluid collection or osteomyelitis (usually shown by CT), 
and the sudden appearance of an aneurysm in a septic patient are all 
features suggesting an infected abdominal aortic aneurysm.870,871 Gas 
in the aortic wall is diagnostic but rare.
Although the sensitivity is unknown, 67Ga- and 111In-labeled leukocyte 
imaging have been used to localize intraarterial infections.872 Occult 
infected aneurysms have been identified in patients with fever of unknown origin and negative results on CT or MRI studies with gallium
873 or 
leukocyte scintigraphy,874 and these procedures may enable seroma 
or hematoma to be distinguished from adjacent infection. Leukocyte imaging with 
99mTc-labeled cells also seems promising, but false-positive 
results have been noted.875 Positron emission tomography labeled 
with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose shows great potential for the detection 
of endarteritis and infected vascular grafts and will likely become the nuclear medicine study of choice for this group of diseases. Nevertheless, preoperative angiography often is preferred to delineate precisely the extent of aneurysmal involvement.
876 This information may alter the 
operative approach and may minimize complications.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1106Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
The choice of antibiotics is governed by the etiologic agent of the IE, 
but therapy for intracranial mycotic aneurysms, especially multiple lesions, must be individualized (see earlier discussion).
828,829
Peripheral vessels usually are involved when arterial trauma (needle 
trauma, gunshot wound, iatrogenic injury) results in pseudoaneurysm formation with infection. Therapy with antibiotics, proximal ligation of the vessel, resection of the pseudoaneurysm, and appropriate drainage results in cures in 75% of the cases. Vascular reconstruction through 
uninfected tissue planes with autogenous grafts is necessary if limb 
viability depends on the affected vessel. This situation is encountered more frequently in the lower extremity. Severe ischemia developed in 9 of 28 patients after excision of mycotic aneurysms of the common femoral artery in one series of 52 cases.
836 Amputation was required in 
only 11% in a large series of 54 aneurysms among drug addicts seen at the Henry Ford Hospital; there were no deaths.
907
The mortality rate in patients with infected atherosclerotic aneurysms 
often exceeds 90%; approximately 40 long-term survivors were reported from 1962 to 1988.
908–911 A high index of suspicion is necessary to allow 
surgical intervention before rupture occurs, because this complication is uniformly fatal and occurs in about 80% of the cases. If gram-negative bacilli are the cause of the infection, early rupture (e.g., within 2 weeks after the first positive blood culture) occurs much more frequently 
(84%) than if gram-positive bacteria are isolated (10%). Survival after 
surgery also is more common (75%) for patients with aneurysms infected with gram-positive cocci than for patients with gram-negative bacilli (25%). Antibiotics should be used in this disease, however, even if the lesion is sterilized (reported in only three cases). The aneurysm still may continue to enlarge and rupture, and surgery is required.
At surgery, the aneurysm and any intraluminal thrombus must be 
sectioned and Gram stain performed, and specimens must be submitted for culture. If infection is present, all aneurysmal tissue and surrounding 
areas of inflammation must be resected before grafting. Basic principles 
of grafting in this situation include the use of autogenous rather than synthetic grafts and insertion only in clean, noninfected tissue planes. If the graft is placed in the infected area, continued infection, leakage, thrombus formation, abscess formation, or rupture usually results. Although some authorities have achieved a successful result through restoration of vascular continuity in situ after radical débridement,
908,910 
this approach is not recommended in most cases. Nevertheless, the type of reconstruction must be individualized, because results of in situ repair seem to be better for suprarenal
912–915 than for more distal aortic 
aneurysms if reconstruction is combined with prolonged courses of intravenously administered antimicrobial agents. Radical resection of intraabdominal aortic aneurysms without prosthetic material also has been used in a few cases.
916
In a review of 24 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms infected 
with salmonellae, 10 died after rupture without surgery and another 7 survived grafting only to die because of continued leakage from the anastomosis (only 5 patients were long-term survivors). If a graft is inserted in situ and persistent fever with bacteremia or embolism in 
the lower extremities ensues, reoperation with extraanatomic grafting is mandatory. Because the resected area is contaminated, special bypass 
techniques—especially for thoracoiliac, transpubic, and axillofemoral bypass—usually are required. If an axillofemoral approach is used, a single graft should be inserted for both lower extremities, because patency is prolonged under these circumstances.
909,911
Bactericidal antibiotics should be continued for 6 to 8 weeks post -
operatively. The choice of agents depends on the isolated organism (or the morphologic characteristics of the organisms in the surgical specimen) and on the results of in vitro susceptibility testing. Implantation of antibiotic-releasing carriers with in situ reconstruction has been used,
917 
but only in a few patients without controlled trials; use of such carriers remains of unproved benefit in therapy for mycotic aneurysm.Pseudoaneurysms resulting from intraarterial or perivascular injection 
of illicit street drugs, often in addicts with sclerosed veins due to repeated intravenous inoculation, are associated with contiguous abscesses. The 
causative agents are S. aureus  (in 76% of cases), P . aeruginosa  (in 18%), 
and many others.
836
Therapy
No uniformly acceptable approach has been devised for the treatment 
of mycotic aneurysms in IE. The treatment of intracranial mycotic aneurysms is particularly controversial. Some of these lesions seem to resolve with antimicrobial therapy alone. In a review of 56 aneurysms occurring in 45 patients,
902 3 of 20 patients died when treatment was 
limited to antibiotics alone. Mild-to-moderate neurologic deficits were observed in 8 of the 17 survivors. Likewise, 6 of 25 patients for whom treatment included antibiotics and surgery died and 9 of 19 survivors were left with mild-to-moderate neurologic deficits. In other 
studies, the investigators reported a different experience, with a higher 
mortality in the nonsurgical group,
827 but patients were selected only 
after subarachnoid hemorrhage had occurred. In a review of 13 intra-cranial mycotic aneurysms,
827 6 of 8 patients who received treatment 
with antibiotics alone died; no deaths were observed in the surgical treatment group. In a review of 85 cases treated between 1954 and 1978, 20 of 38 patients managed solely with antibiotics died, com -
pared with 8 of 30 patients who underwent surgery.
826 Endovascular 
stent-grafts combined with antibiotic therapy have been used in a few patients with mycotic aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta.
903 
The distal location of most intracranial mycotic aneurysms associated with IE may permit ligation and excision with fewer complications than are observed with surgery for berry aneurysms in the circle of Willis. The mortality rate was low (4 of 15) in patients with multiple 
aneurysms who received treatment with antibiotics alone. In one series, 
the mortality rate was 29% after rupture of an intracranial mycotic  
aneurysm.
The most important factor in the management of intracranial mycotic 
aneurysms is whether rupture is present. A definitive review found that mortality rates of medically and surgically managed patients with unruptured intracranial mycotic aneurysms due to IE were similar. If rupture was present, however, surgical or endovascular therapy appeared to be indicated, because the outcome of medically managed patients 
was poor. Based on these data, most authorities advise a conservative approach if the intracranial mycotic aneurysm is unruptured. Other factors influencing treatment decisions for intracranial mycotic aneurysms include aneurysm location, presence of increased intra -
cranial pressure, and the extent of perfusion supplied by the affected 
artery. Interesting to note, aneurysm size is not helpful in determining 
when to operate immediately because small mycotic aneurysms may rupture and some large mycotic aneurysms may regress with medical  
management.
Serial imaging with angiography, magnetic resonance angiography, 
or CT angiography may be useful in monitoring these patients, because the aneurysms may change in size or new lesions may develop. Among 
21 patients studied with angiography, the mycotic aneurysm increased in size in 5 patients, did not change in 1 patient, became smaller in 6 
patients, and completely resolved in 11 patients; new aneurysms developed in 2 patients. More than 50% of these peripheral intracranial aneurysms resolved with antibiotic therapy alone during the treatment of IE.
902 Surgery is indicated for aneurysms that are increasing in size 
on serial angiographic studies904–906 but may be deferred for 4 to 6 weeks 
for aneurysms that are remaining the same size (if the patient is an acceptable medical risk). The definitive treatment for aneurysms that are decreasing in size on serial angiographic studies repeated every 2 weeks is unclear. CT is not helpful in localizing the aneurysm but provides 
important information if hematomas, infarcts, or abscesses develop. 
Key References
The complete reference list is available online at Expert Consult .
1. B addour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et  al. Infective 
endocarditis: diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and 
management of complications: a scientific statement  for healthcare professionals from the American  
Heart Association. Circulation . 2015;132: 
1435.
7. M urdoch DR, Corey GR, Hoen B, et  al. Regional 
variation in the presentation and outcome of  
patients with infective endocarditis. The  International Collaboration on Endocarditis–Prospective 
Cohort Study (ICE-PCS). Arch Intern Med . 2009;169: 
463.
10. F owler VG Jr, Miro JM, Hoen B, et  al. Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis: a consequence of medical progress. 
JAMA. 2005;293:3012.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intrav ascular Infections 
1106.e1
UPDATE
Henry Redel, MD
Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical 
School, New Brunswick, New Jersey
Martin Blaser, MD
Henry Rutgers Chair of the Human Microbiome, Professor of Medicine and Microbiol -
ogy—RWJMS, Director, Center for Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine, Rutgers 
University, Piscataway, New Jersey
November 2019
The long-standing and general principle for the preferential use of parenteral 
antibiotics in the treatment of infective endocarditis has been challenged by the results 
of the Partial Oral Treatment of Endocarditis (POET) trial.1 A multicenter, randomized, 
unblinded, noninferiority trial was performed in Denmark involving 400 patients 
with either native or prosthetic valve endocarditis due to Streptococcus species, 
Enterococcus faecalis , Staphylococcus aureus , or coagulase-negative staphylococci. 
The study subjects were randomized to either conventional parenteral treatment, or to early switch to oral combination therapy with highly bioavailable agents. The primary outcome was a composite of all-cause mortality, unplanned cardiac surgery, 
clinically evident embolic events, or relapse of bacteremia at 6 months. Such bad outcomes occurred in 12.1% of the intravenous treatment group and 9.0% of the 
oral treatment group. This result met the noninferiority criterion. Four patients were 
switched from oral to intravenous therapy, and including these as treatment failure did not change the outcome of noninferiority. This study was heterogeneous, with many clinically relevant variables including the use of multiple treatment regimens 
for each bacterial species, and the inclusion of prosthetic and native valves. Such 
heterogeneity limited our ability to assess the efficacy of specific regimens. However, the concept of early switch to oral combination therapy in endocarditis appears to 
be safe and will be of interest to both patients and clinicians going forward. Further 
studies are needed to define the most effective regimens for these common gram-positive pathogens and with regard to regimens for prosthetic versus native valves.
Reference
1. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30152252.Partial Oral Antibiotics for Infective Endocarditis
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1107Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intravascular Infections 17. Benito N, Miro JM, de Lazzari E, et al. 
Healthcare-associated native valve endocarditis: 
importance of non-nosocomial acquisition. Ann Intern 
Med . 2009;150:586.
23. Tribouilloy C, Rusinaru D, Sorel C, et al. Clinical 
characteristics and outcome of infective endocarditis in 
adults with bicuspid aortic valves: a multicentre 
observational study. Heart . 2010;96:1723.
63. Wilson W , Taubert KA, Gewitz M, et al. Prevention of 
infective endocarditis: guidelines from the American 
Heart Association. A guideline from the American Heart 
Association Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki 
Disease Committee, Council on Cardiovascular Disease 
in the Y oung, and the Council on Clinical Cardiology, 
Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, and 
the Quality of Care and Outcomes Research 
Interdisciplinary Working Group. Circulation . 
2007;116:1736.
217. Morris AJ, Drinkovic D, Pottumarthy S, et al. Gram stain, 
culture, and histopathological examination findings for 
heart valves removed because of infective endocarditis. 
Clin Infect Dis . 2003;36:697.
224. Duval X, Iung B, Klein I, et al. Effect of early cerebral 
magnetic resonance imaging on clinical decisions in 
infective endocarditis: a prospective study. Ann Intern 
Med . 2010;152:497.
226. Snygg-Martin U, Gustafsson L, Rosengren L, et al. 
Cerebrovascular complications in patients with left-sided 
infective endocarditis are common: a prospective study 
using magnetic resonance imaging and neurochemical 
brain damage markers. Clin Infect Dis . 2008;47:23.
227. Dickerman SA, Abrutyn E, Barsic B, et al. The 
relationship between the initiation of antimicrobial 
therapy and the incidence of stroke in infective 
endocarditis: an analysis from the ICE-PCS study. Am 
Heart J . 2007;154:1086.
239. Fernández Guerrero ML, Alvarez B, Manzarbeitia F , et al. 
Infective endocarditis at autopsy: a review of pathologic 
manifestations and clinical correlates. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 2012;91:152–164.
245. Kiefer T, Park L, Tribouilloy C, et al. Association between 
valvular surgery and mortality among patients with 
infective endocarditis complicated by heart failure. JAMA . 
2011;306:2239–2247.
251. Sonneville R, Mirabel M, Hajage F , et al. Neurologic 
complications and outcomes of infective endocarditis in 
critically ill patients: the ENDOcardite en REAnimation 
prospective multicenter study. Crit Care Med . 
2011;39:1474–1481.
252. Tunkel AR, Kaye D. Neurologic complications of infective 
endocarditis. Neurol Clin . 1993;11:419.
254. Heiro M, Nikoskelainen J, Engblom E, et al. Neurologic 
manifestations of infective endocarditis: a 17-year 
experience in a teaching hospital in Finland. Arch Intern 
Med . 2000;160:2781.
272. Saby L, Laas O, Habib G, et al. Positron emission 
tomography/computed tomography for diagnosis of 
prosthetic valve endocarditis: increased valvular 
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake as a novel major criterion. 
J Am Coll Cardiol . 2013;23:2374.
283. Tunkel AR, Kaye D. Endocarditis with negative blood 
cultures. N Engl J Med . 1992;326:1215.
286. Petti CA, Bhally HS, Weinstein MP , et al. Utility of 
extended blood culture incubation for isolation of 
Haemophilus, Actinobacillus, Cardiobacterium, Eikenella,  
and Kingella  organisms: a retrospective multicenter 
evaluation. J Clin Microbiol . 2006;44:257.
288. Shapiro DS, Kenney SC, Johnson M, et al. Chlamydia 
psittaci  endocarditis diagnosed by blood culture. N Engl J 
Med . 1992;326:1192.
289. Tompkins LS, Roessler BJ, Redd SC, et al. Legionella  
prosthetic valve endocarditis. N Engl J Med . 1988;318:530.
290. Spach DH, Kanter AS, Daniels NA, et al. Bartonella 
(Rochalimaea)  species as a cause of apparent 
“culture-negative” endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 
1995;20:1044.
294. Raoult D, Fournier PE, Drancourt M, et al. Diagnosis of 
22 new cases of Bartonella  endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 
1996;125:646.
295. Fenollar F , Lepidi H, Raoult D. Whipple’s endocarditis: 
review of the literature and comparisons with Q fever, 
Bartonella  infection, and blood culture-positive 
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2001;33:1309–1316.
299. Fournier PE, Thuny F , Richet H, et al. Comprehensive 
diagnostic strategy for blood culture-negative 
endocarditis: a prospective study of 819 new cases. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2010;51:131.
302. Baddley JW , Benjamin DK Jr, Patel M, et al; International 
Collaboration on Endocarditis–Prospective Cohort Study. 
Candida  infective endocarditis. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect 
Dis. 2008;27:519.
316. Steckelberg JM, Murphy JG, Ballard D, et al. Emboli in 
infective endocarditis: the prognostic value of echocardiography. Ann Intern Med . 1991;114:  
635.
323. SanFilippo AJ, Picard MH, Newell JB, et al. 
Echocardiographic assessment of patients with infective 
endocarditis. J Am Coll Cardiol . 1991;18:1191.
334. Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et al. Infective 
endocarditis: diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy and 
management of complications. Circulation . 
2005;111:3167.
336. Daniel WG, Mügge A, Martin RP , et al. Improvement in 
the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis  
by transesophageal echocardiography. N Engl J Med . 
1991;324:795.
342. Heidenreich PA, Masoudi FA, Maini B, et al. 
Echocardiography in patients with suspected 
endocarditis: a cost-effectiveness analysis. Am J Med . 
1999;107:198.
343. Rosen AB, Fowler VG, Corey GR, et al. Cost-effectiveness 
of transesophageal echocardiography to determine the 
duration of therapy for intravascular catheter-associated 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. Ann Intern Med . 
1999;130:810.
347. Durack DT, Lukes AS, Bright DK, et al. New criteria for 
diagnosis of infective endocarditis. Am J Med . 
1994;96:200.
348. Li JS, Sexton DJ, Mick N, et al. Proposed modifications  
to the Duke criteria for the diagnosis of infective 
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2000;30:633.
362. Klein RS, Reuco RA, Catalano MT, et al. Association of 
Streptococcus bovis  with carcinoma of the colon. N Engl J 
Med . 1977;297:800.
365. Selton-Suty C, Célard M, Le Moing V , et al. Preeminence 
of Staphylococcus aureus  in infective endocarditis: a 
1-year population-based survey. Clin Infect Dis . 
2012;54:1230–1239.
375. Lefort A, Mainardi JL, Selton-Suty C, et al. Streptococcus 
pneumoniae  endocarditis in adults: a multicenter study in 
France in the era of penicillin resistance (1991-1998). The 
Pneumococcal Endocarditis Study Group. Medicine 
(Baltinore) . 2000;79:327.
402. Fowler VG Jr, Olsen MK, Corey GR, et al. Clinical 
identifiers of complicated Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Arch Intern Med . 2003;163:2066.
417. Chu VH, Woods CW , Miro JM, et al. Native valve 
endocarditis due to coagulase negative staphylococcus: 
clinical significance and predictors of mortality. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2008;46:232.
430. Morpeth S, Murdoch D, Cabell CH, et al. Non-HACEK 
gram-negative bacillus endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 
2007;147:829.
483. Raoult D, Tissot-Dupont H, Foucault C, et al. Q fever 
1985-1998: clinical and epidemiologic features of 1,383 
infections. Medicine (Baltimore) . 2000;79:109.
493. Geissdorfer W , Moos V , Moter A, et al. High frequency of 
Tropheryma whipplei  in culture-negative endocarditis. J 
Clin Microbiol . 2012;50:216–222.
501. Baddley JW , Benjamin DK Jr, Patel M, et al. Candida  
infective endocarditis. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 
2008;27:519.
540. Lalani T, Cabell CH, Benjamin DK, et al; International 
Collaboration on Endocarditis–Prospective Cohort Study. 
Analysis of the impact of early surgery on in-hospital 
mortality of native valve endocarditis: use of propensity 
score and instrumental variable methods to adjust for 
treatment-selection bias. Circulation . 2010;121:1005–1013.
541. Kang DH, Kim YJ, Kim SH, et al. Early surgery versus 
conventional treatment for infective endocarditis. N Engl 
J Med . 2012;366:2466.
543. Le T, Bayer AS. Combination antibiotic therapy for 
infective endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2003;36:615.
564. Wilson WR, Geraci JE, Wilkowske CJ, et al. Short-term 
intramuscular therapy with procaine penicillin plus 
streptomycin for infective endocarditis due to viridans 
streptococci. Circulation . 1978;57:1158.
569. Sexton DJ, Tenenbaum MJ, Wilson WR, et al. Ceftriaxone 
once daily for 4 weeks compared to ceftriaxone plus 
gentamicin once daily for 2 weeks for treatment of 
penicillin-susceptible streptococcal endocarditis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1998;27:1470.
610. Gavalda J, Len O, Miro JM, et al. Treatment of 
Enterococcus faecalis  endocarditis with ampicillin plus 
ceftriaxone. Ann Intern Med . 2007;146:574.
611. Fernández-Hidalgo N, Almirante B, Gavaldà J, et al. 
Ampicillin plus ceftriaxone is as effective as ampicillin 
plus gentamicin for treating Enterococcus faecalis  infective 
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2013;56:1261.
619. Murray BE. Vancomycin-resistant enterococcal infections. 
N Engl J Med . 2000;342:710.
634. Olaison L, Schadewitz K, Swedish Society of Infectious 
Diseases Quality Assurance Study Group for 
Endocarditis. Enterococcal endocarditis in Sweden, 
1995-1999: can shorter therapy with aminoglycosides be 
used? Clin Infect Dis . 2002;34:159.641. Chambers HF , Miller RT, Newman MD. Right-sided 
Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis in intravenous drug 
abusers: two week combination therapy. Ann Intern Med . 
1988;109:619.
646. Ribera E, Gomez-Jimenez J, Cortes E, et al. Effectiveness 
of cloxacillin with and without gentamicin in short-term 
therapy for right-sided Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis: a randomized, controlled trial. Ann Intern 
Med . 1996;125:969.
648. Fowler VG Jr, Boucher HW , Corey GR, et al. Daptomycin 
versus standard therapy for bacteremia and endocarditis 
caused by Staphylococcus aureus . N Engl J Med . 
2006;355:653.
654. Cosgrove SE, Vigliani GA, Campion M, et al. Initial 
low-dose gentamicin for S. aureus  bacteremia and 
endocarditis is nephrotoxic. Clin Infect Dis . 2009;48:  
713.
660. Levine DP , Fromm BS, Reddy BR. Slow response to 
vancomycin or vancomycin plus rifampin in 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis. 
Ann Intern Med . 1991;115:674.
663. van Hal SJ, Lodise TP , Paterson DL. The clinical 
significance of vancomycin minimum inhibitory 
concentration in Staphylococcus aureus  infections: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis. Clin Infect Dis . 
2012;54:755.
664. van Hal S, Fowler VG Jr. Is it time to replace vancomycin 
in the treatment of MRSA infections? Clin Infect Dis . 
2013;56:1779.
665. Holmes NE, Turnidge JD, Munckhof WJ, et al. Antibiotic 
choice may not explain poorer outcomes in patients with 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia and high vancomycin 
minimum inhibitory concentrations. J Infect Dis . 
2011;204:340.
666. Cervera C, Castañeda X, de la Maria CG, et al. Effect of 
vancomycin minimal inhibitory concentration on the 
outcome of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2014;58:1668.
667. Liu C, Bayer A, Cosgrove SE, et al. Clinical practice 
guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America 
for the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  infections in adults and children. Clin Infect Dis . 
2011;52:e18.
668. Sharma M, Riederer K, Chase P , et al. High rate of 
decreasing daptomycin susceptibility during the 
treatment of persistent Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. 
Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 2008;27:433.
677. Riedel DJ, Weekes E, Forrest GN. Addition of rifampin to 
standard therapy for treatment of native valve infective 
endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 2008;52:2463.
679. Thwaites GE, et al. Adjunctive rifampicin for 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia (ARREST):  
a multicenter, randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial. Lancet . 2017.
689. del Río A, Gasch O, Moreno A, et al. Efficacy and safety 
of fosfomycin plus imipenem as rescue therapy for 
complicated bacteremia and endocarditis due to 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus:  a multicenter 
clinical trial. Clin Infect Dis . 2014;59:1105.
690. Fabre V , Ferrada M, Buckel WR, et al. Ceftaroline in 
combination with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for 
salvage therapy of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  bacteremia and endocarditis. Open Forum Infect 
Dis. 2014;1:ofu046.
691. Tattevin P , Boutoille D, Vitrat V , et al. Salvage treatment 
of methicillin-resistant staphylococcal endocarditis with 
ceftaroline: a multicentre observational study. J 
Antimicrob Chemother . 2014;69:2010.
694. Watanakunakorn C. Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis at 
a community teaching hospital, 1980 to 1991: an analysis 
of 106 cases. Arch Intern Med . 1994;154:2330.
696. Fridkin SK, Hageman J, McDougal LK, et al; 
Vancomycin-Intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  
Epidemiology Study Group. Epidemiological and 
microbiological characterization of infections caused by 
Staphylococcus aureus  with reduced susceptibility to 
vancomycin, United States, 1997-2001. Clin Infect Dis . 
2003;36:429.
698. Chang S, Sievert DM, Hageman JC, et al; 
Vancomycin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus  Investigative 
Team. Infection with vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  containing the vanA resistance gene. N Engl J 
Med . 2003;348:1342.
699. Karchmer AW , Archer GL, Dismukes WE. Staphylococcus 
epidermidis  causing prosthetic valve endocarditis: 
microbiologic and clinical observations as guides to 
therapy. Ann Intern Med . 1983;98:447.
700. Schwalbe RS, Stapleton JT, Gilligan PH. Emergence of 
vancomycin resistance in coagulase-negative 
staphylococci. N Engl J Med . 1987;316:927.
732. Arnold CJ, Johnson M, Bayer AS, et al. Candida  infective 
endocarditis: an observational cohort study with a focus 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1108Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes
on therapy. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2015;59:2365–2373.
743. Chirouze C, Alla F , Fowler VG Jr, et al. Impact of early 
valve surgery on outcome of Staphylococcus aureus  
prosthetic valve infective endocarditis: analysis in the 
International Collaboration of Endocarditis–Prospective 
Cohort Study. Clin Infect Dis . 2015;60:741.
744. Desch S, Freund A, de Waha S, et al. Outcome in patients 
with left-sided native-valve infective endocarditis and 
isolated large vegetations. Clin Cardiol . 2014;37:626.
746. Kang D, Kim YJ, Kim SH, et al. Early surgery versus 
conventional treatment for infective endocarditis. N Engl 
J Med . 2012;366:2466.
747. Hasbun R, Vikram HR, Barakat LA, et al. Complicated 
left-sided native valve endocarditis in adults: risk classification for mortality. JAMA . 2003;289:  
1933.
752. Barsic B, Dickerman S, Krajinovic V , et al. Influence of 
the timing of cardiac surgery on the outcome of patients 
with infective endocarditis and stroke. Clin Infect Dis . 
2013;56:209.
753. Garcia-Cabrera E, Fernandez-Hidalgo N, Almirante B, 
et al. Neurological complications of infective endocarditis: 
risk factors, outcome, and impact of cardiac surgery: a 
multicenter observational study. Circulation . 
2013;127:2272.
780. Crowley AL, Peterson GE, Benjamin DK Jr, et al. Venous 
thrombosis in patients with short- and long-term central 
venous catheter-associated Staphylococcus aureus 
bacteremia. Crit Care Med . 2008;36:385.792. Collins CG. Suppurative pelvic thrombophlebitis: a study 
of 202 cases in which the disease was treated by ligation 
of the vena cava and ovarian vein. Am J Obstet Gynecol . 
1970;108:681.
796. Khan EA, Correa AG, Baker CJ. Suppurative 
thrombophlebitis in children: a ten-year experience. 
Pediatr Infect Dis J . 1997;16:63.
917. Pasic M, von Segesser L, Turina M. Implantation of 
antibiotic-releasing carriers and in situ reconstruction for 
treatment of mycotic aneurysm. Arch Surg . 1992;127:  
745.
936. Belmares J, Detterline S, Pak JB, et al. Corynebacterium  
endocarditis species-specific risk factors and outcomes. 
BMC Infect Dis . 2007;7:4.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intravascular Infections 
1108.e1
References
1. Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et al. Infective 
endocarditis: diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and 
management of complications: a scientific statement for 
healthcare professionals from the American Heart 
Association. Circulation . 2015;132:1435.
2. Lerner PI, Weinstein L. Infective endocarditis in the 
antibiotic era. N Engl J Med . 1966;274:199.
3. von Reyn CF , Levy BS, Arbeit RD, et al. Infective 
endocarditis: an analysis based on strict case definitions. 
Ann Intern Med . 1982;94:505.
4. Steckelberg JM, Melton LJ III, Ilstrup DM, et al. Influence 
of referral bias on the apparent clinical spectrum of 
infective endocarditis. Am J Med . 1990;88:582.
5. Bin Abdulhak AA, Baddour LM, Erwin PJ, et al. Global 
and regional burden of infective endocarditis, 1990-2010: 
a systematic review of the literature. Glob Heart . 
2014;9:131–143.
6. Federspiel JJ, Stearns SC, Peppercorn AF , et al. 
Endocarditis trends in the United States demonstrate 
increasing rates of Staphylococcus aureus : 1999-2008. Arch 
Intern Med . 2012;172:363.
7. Murdoch DR, Corey GR, Hoen B, et al. Regional 
variation in the presentation and outcome of patients 
with infective endocarditis. The International 
Collaboration on Endocarditis–Prospective Cohort Study 
(ICE-PCS). Arch Intern Med . 2009;169:463.
8. Thayer WS. Studies on bacterial (infective) endocarditis. 
Johns Hopkins Hosp Rep . 1926;22:1.
9. Durante-Mangoni E, Bradley S, Tripodi M-F , et al. 
Current features of infective endocarditis in the elderly: 
results of the International Collaboration on Endocarditis 
Prospective Cohort Study. Arch Intern Med . 
2008;168:2095.
10. Fowler VG Jr, Miro JM, Hoen B, et al. Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis: a consequence of medical progress. 
JAMA . 2005;293:3012.
11. Kaplan EL. Infective endocarditis in the pediatric age 
group: an overview. In: Kaplan EL, Taranta AV , eds. 
Infective Endocarditis: An American Heart Association 
Symposium . Dallas: American Heart Association;  
1977:51.
12. Baltimore RS. Infective endocarditis in children. Pediatr 
Infect Dis J . 1992;11:907.
13. Harris SL. Definitions and demographic characteristics. 
In: Kaye D, ed. Infective Endocarditis . New Y ork: Raven 
Press; 1992:1.
14. Cabell CH, Jollis JG, Peterson GE, et al. Changing patient 
characteristics and the effect on mortality in endocarditis. 
Arch Intern Med . 2002;162:90.
15. Fernandez-Guerrero ML, Verdejo C, Azofra J, et al. 
Hospital-acquired infectious endocarditis not associated 
with cardiac surgery: an emerging problem. Clin Infect 
Dis. 1995;20:16.
16. Gouello JP , Asfar P , Brenet O, et al. Nosocomial 
endocarditis in the intensive care unit: an analysis of 22 
cases. Crit Care Med . 2000;28:377.
17. Benito N, Miro JM, de Lazzari E, et al. Healthcare-
associated native valve endocarditis: importance of 
non-nosocomial acquisition. Ann Intern Med . 
2009;150:586.
18. Come PC. Infective endocarditis: current perspectives. 
Compr Ther . 1982;8:57.
19. Rothenbühler M, O’Sullivan CJ, Stortecky S, et al. Active 
surveillance for rheumatic heart disease in endemic 
regions: a systematic review and meta-analysis of 
prevalence among children and adolescents. Lancet Glob 
Health . 2014;2:e717–e726.
20. GBD 2016 Disease and Injury Incidence and Prevalence 
Collaborators. Global, regional, and national incidence, 
prevalence, and years lived with disability for 328 diseases 
and injuries for 195 countries, 1990–2016: a systematic 
analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016. 
Lancet . 2017;390:1211–1259.
21. Watt G, Lacroix A, Pachirat O, et al. Prospective 
comparison of infective endocarditis in Khon Kaen, 
Thailand and Rennes, France. Am J Trop Med Hyg . 
2015;92:871–874.
22. Lamas CC, Eykyn SJ. Bicuspid aortic valve—a silent 
danger: analysis of 50 cases of infective endocarditis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2000;30:336.
23. Tribouilloy C, Rusinaru D, Sorel C, et al. Clinical 
characteristics and outcome of infective endocarditis in 
adults with bicuspid aortic valves: a multicentre 
observational study. Heart . 2010;96:1723.
24. Gersony WM, Hayes CJ, Driscoll DJ, et al. Bacterial 
endocarditis in patients with aortic stenosis, pulmonary 
stenosis, or ventricular septal defect. Circulation . 
1993;87(2 suppl):I121.
25. McKinsey DS, Ratts TE, Bisno AL. Underlying cardiac 
lesions in adults with infective endocarditis: the changing 
spectrum. Am J Med . 1987;82:681.26. Lowes JA, Hamer J, Williams G, et al. Ten years of 
infective endocarditis at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital: 
analysis of clinical features and treatment in relation to 
prognosis and mortality. Lancet . 1980;1:133.
27. Moulsdale MT, Eykyn SJ, Phillips I. Infective 
endocarditis, 1970-1979: a study of culture-positive cases 
in St. Thomas’ Hospital. QJM . 1980;49:315.
28. Fulkerson PK, Beaver BM, Aveson JC, et al. Calcification 
of the mitral annulus: etiology, clinical associations, 
complications and therapy. Am J Med . 1979;66:967.
29. Watanakunakorn C, Burkert T. Infective endocarditis at a 
large community teaching hospital, 1980-1990. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1993;72:90.
30. Cabell CH, Heidenreich PA, Chu VH, et al. Increasing 
rates of cardiac device infections among Medicare 
beneficiaries: 1990-1999. Am Heart J . 2004;147:582.
31. Carrasco F , Anguita M, Ruiz M, et al. Clinical features 
and changes in epidemiology of infective endocarditis on 
pacemaker devices over a 27-year period (1987-2013). 
Europace . 2016;18:836–841.
32. Welton DE, Y oung JB, Gentry LO, et al. Recurrent 
infective endocarditis: analysis of predisposing factors 
and clinical features. Am J Med . 1979;66:932.
33. Kreuzpaintner G, Horstkotte D, Heyll A, et al. Increased 
risk of bacterial endocarditis in inflammatory bowel 
disease. Am J Med . 1992;92:391.
34. Chagnac A, Rudniki C, Loebel H, et al. Infectious 
endocarditis in idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic 
stenosis: report of three cases and review of the literature. 
Chest . 1982;81:346.
35. Katan O, Michelena HI, Avierinos JF , et al. Incidence and 
predictors of infective endocarditis in mitral valve 
prolapse: a population-based study. Mayo Clinic 
Proceedings . 2016;91:336–342.
36. Schutte JE, Gaffney FA, Blend L, et al. Distinctive 
anthropometric characteristics of women with mitral 
valve prolapse. Am J Med . 1981;71:533.
37. Corrigan D, Bolen J, Hancock EW , et al. Mitral valve 
prolapse and infective endocarditis. Am J Med . 
1977;63:215.
38. Devereux RB, Kramer-Fox R, Kligfield P . Mitral valve 
prolapse: causes, clinical manifestations, and 
management. Ann Intern Med . 1989;111:305.
39. Clemens JD, Horwitz RI, Jaffe CC, et al. A controlled 
evaluation of the risk of bacterial endocarditis in persons 
with mitral-valve prolapse. N Engl J Med . 1982;307:  
776.
40. Nolan CM, Kane JJ, Grunow W A. Infective endocarditis 
and mitral prolapse: a comparison with other types of 
endocarditis. Arch Intern Med . 1981;141:447.
41. Scheld WM. Pathogenesis and pathophysiology of 
infective endocarditis. In: Sande MA, Kaye D, Root RK, 
eds. Endocarditis . Vol. 1. Contemporary Issues in 
Infectious Diseases. London: Churchill Livingstone; 
1984:1.
42. Freedman LR. The pathogenesis of infective endocarditis. 
J Antimicrob Chemother . 1987;20(supplA):1.
43. Livornese LL Jr, Korzeniowski OM. Pathogenesis of 
infective endocarditis. In: Kaye D, ed. Infective 
Endocarditis . New Y ork: Raven Press; 1992:19.
44. Tunkel AR, Scheld WM. Experimental models of 
endocarditis. In: Kaye D, ed. Infective Endocarditis . New 
Y ork: Raven Press; 1992:37.
45. Holland TL, Baddoour LM, Bayer AS, et al. Infective 
endocarditis. Nat Rev Dis Primers . 2016;2:1.
46. Weinstein L, Schlesinger JJ. Pathoanatomic, 
pathophysiologic, and clinical correlations in endocarditis 
(first of two parts). N Engl J Med . 1974;291:832.
47. Angrist AA, Oka M. Pathogenesis of bacterial 
endocarditis. JAMA . 1963;183:249.
48. Durack DT, Beeson PB. Pathogenesis of infective 
endocarditis. In: Rahimtoola SH, ed. Infective 
Endocarditis . New Y ork: Grune & Stratton; 1978:1.
49. Durack DT, Beeson PB. Experimental bacterial 
endocarditis, I. Colonization of a sterile vegetation. Br J 
Exp Pathol . 1972;53:44.
50. Durack DT, Beeson PB, Petersdorf RG. Experimental 
endocarditis, III. Production and progress of the disease 
in rabbits. Br J Exp Pathol . 1973;54:142.
51. Durack DT. Experimental bacterial endocarditis, IV . 
Structure and function of very early lesions. J Pathol . 
1975;115:81.
52. McGowan DA, Gillett R. Scanning electron microscopic 
observations of the surface of the initial lesion in 
experimental streptococcal endocarditis in the rabbit. Br J 
Exp Pathol . 1980;61:164.
53. Ferguson DJP , McColm AA, Ryan DM, et al. 
Experimental staphylococcal endocarditis and aortitis: 
morphology of the initial colonization. Virchows Arch A 
Pathol Anat Histopathol . 1986;410:43.
54. Sherwood BF , Rowlands DT, Vakilzadeh J, et al. 
Experimental bacterial endocarditis in the opossum 
(Didelphis virginiana) . Am J Pathol . 1971;64:513.55. Chino F , Kodama A, Otake M, et al. Nonbacterial 
thrombotic endocarditis in a Japanese autopsy sample: a 
review of 80 cases. Am Heart J . 1975;90:190.
56. Edoute Y , Haim N, Rinkevich D, et al. Cardiac valvular 
vegetations in cancer patients: a prospective 
echocardiographic study of 200 patients. Am J Med . 
1997;102:252.
57. Kupferwasser LI, Hafner G, Mohr-Kahaly S, et al. The 
presence of infection-related antiphospholipid antibodies 
in infective endocarditis determines a major risk factor 
for embolic events. J Am Coll Cardiol . 1999;33:  
1365.
58. Rodbard S. Blood velocity and endocarditis. Circulation . 
1963;27:18.
59. Lepeschkin E. On the relation between the site of valvular 
involvement in endocarditis and the blood pressure 
resting on the valve. Am J Med Sci . 1952;224:318.
60. Okell CC, Elliott SD. Bacteraemia and oral sepsis: with 
special reference to the aetiology of subacute 
endocarditis. Lancet . 1935;2:869.
61. Everett ED, Hirschmann JV . Transient bacteremia and 
endocarditis prophylaxis: a review. Medicine (Baltimore) . 
1977;56:61.
62. Loesche WJ. Indigenous human flora and bacteremia. In: 
Kaplan EL, Taranta AV , eds. Infective Endocarditis: An 
American Heart Association Symposium . Dallas: American 
Heart Association; 1977:40.
63. Wilson W , Taubert KA, Gewitz M, et al. Prevention of 
infective endocarditis: guidelines from the American 
Heart Association. A guideline from the American Heart 
Association Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki 
Disease Committee, Council on Cardiovascular Disease 
in the Y oung, and the Council on Clinical Cardiology, 
Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, and 
the Quality of Care and Outcomes Research 
Interdisciplinary Working Group. Circulation . 
2007;116:1736.
64. Tomás I, Diz P , Tobías A, et al. Periodontal health status 
and bacteraemia from daily oral activities: systematic 
review/meta-analysis. J Clin Periodontol . 
2012;39:213–228.
65. Durack DT, Beeson PB. Protective role of complement in 
experimental Escherichia coli  endocarditis. Infect Immun . 
1977;16:213.
66. Y ersin B, Glauser M-P , Guze L, et al. Experimental 
Escherichia coli  endocarditis in rats: roles of serum 
bactericidal activity and duration of catheter placement. 
Infect Immun . 1988;56:1273.
67. Gould K, Ramirez-Ronda CH, Holmes RK, et al. 
Adherence of bacteria to heart valves in vitro. J Clin 
Invest . 1975;56:1364.
68. Freedman LR, Valone J Jr. Experimental infective 
endocarditis. Prog Cardiovasc Dis . 1979;22:169.
69. Fowler VG Jr, Nelson CL, McIntyre LM, et al. Potential 
associations between virulence and bacterial genotype in 
Staphylococcus aureus . J Infect Dis . 2007;196:738.
70. Nienaber JJ, Sharma Kuinkel BK, Clarke-Pearson M, et al; 
International Collaboration on Endocarditis–
Microbiology Investigators. Methicillin-susceptible 
Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis isolates are associated 
with clonal complex 30 genotype and a distinct repertoire 
of enterotoxins and adhesins. J Infect Dis . 2011;204:  
704.
71. Miller CE, Batra R, Cooper BS, et al. An association 
between bacterial genotype combined with a 
high-vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration and 
risk of endocarditis in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  bloodstream infection. Clin Infect Dis . 
2012;54:591.
72. Baddour LM, Lowrance C, Albus A, et al. Staphylococcus 
aureus  microcapsule expression attenuates bacterial 
virulence in a rat model of experimental endocarditis. J 
Infect Dis . 1992;165:749.
73. Baba T, Takeuchi F , Kuroda M, et al. Genome and 
virulence determinants of high virulence community-
acquired MRSA. Lancet . 2002;359:1819.
74. Gillet Y , Issartel B, Vanhems P , et al. Association between 
Staphylococcus aureus  strains carrying gene for 
Panton-Valentine leukocidin and highly lethal necrotising 
pneumonia in young immunocompetent patients. Lancet . 
2002;359:753.
75. Jarraud S, Mougel C, Thioulouse J, et al. Relationships 
between Staphylococcus aureus  genetic background, 
virulence factors, agr groups (alleles), and human disease. 
Infect Immun . 2002;70:631.
76. Peacock SJ, Moore CE, Justice A, et al. Virulent 
combinations of adhesin and toxin genes in natural 
populations of Staphylococcus aureus . Infect Immun . 
2002;70:4987.
77. Gill SR, McIntyre LM, Nelson CL, et al. Potential 
associations between severity of infection and the 
presence of virulence-associated genes in clinical strains 
of Staphylococcus aureus . PLoS ONE . 2011;6:e18673.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1108.e2
Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes78. Overholser CD, Moreillon P , Glauser MP . Experimental 
bacterial endocarditis after dental extractions in rats with 
periodontitis. J Infect Dis . 1987;155:107.
79. Moreillon P , Overholser CD, Malinverni R, et al. 
Predictors of endocarditis in isolates from cultures of 
blood following dental extractions in rats with 
periodontal disease. J Infect Dis . 1988;157:990.
80. Gibbons RJ, Nygaard M. Synthesis of insoluble dextran 
and its significance in the formation of gelatinous 
deposits by plaque-forming streptococci. Arch Oral Biol . 
1968;13:1249.
81. Parker MT, Ball LC. Streptococci and aerococci 
associated with systemic infection in man. J Med 
Microbiol . 1976;9:275.
82. Scheld WM, Valone JA, Sande MA. Bacterial adherence 
in the pathogenesis of endocarditis: interaction of 
bacterial dextran, platelets, and fibrin. J Clin Invest . 
1978;61:1394.
83. Ramirez-Ronda CH. Adherence of glucan-positive and 
glucan-negative streptococcal strains to normal and 
damaged heart valves. J Clin Invest . 1978;62:805.
84. Ramirez-Ronda CH. Effects of molecular weight of 
dextran on the adherence of Streptococcus sanguis  to 
damaged heart valves. Infect Immun . 1980;29:1.
85. Pelletier LL Jr, Coyle M, Petersdorf R. Dextran 
production as a possible virulence factor in streptococcal 
endocarditis. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med . 1978;158:415.
86. Pulliam L, Dall L, Inokuchi S, et al. Enzymatic 
modification of the glycocalyx in experimental 
endocarditis due to viridans streptococci. J Infect Dis . 
1987;156:736.
87. Dall L, Barnes WG, Lane JW , et al. Enzymatic 
modification of glycocalyx in the treatment of 
experimental endocarditis due to viridans streptococci. J 
Infect Dis . 1987;156:736.
88. Dall LH, Herndon BL. Association of cell adherent 
glycocalyx and endocarditis production by viridans group 
streptococci. J Clin Microbiol . 1990;28:1698.
89. Crawford I, Russell C. Comparative adhesion of seven 
species of streptococci isolated from the blood of patients 
with subacute bacterial endocarditis to fibrin-platelet 
clots in vitro. J Appl Bacteriol . 1986;60:127.
90. Dall L, Keihofner M, Herndon B, et al. Clindamycin 
effect on glycocalyx production in experimental viridans 
streptococcal endocarditis. J Infect Dis . 1990;161:  
1221.
91. Burnette-Curley D, Wells V , Viscount H, et al. FimA, a 
major virulence determinant associated with 
Streptococcus parasanguis  endocarditis. Infect Immun . 
1995;63:4669.
92. Viscount HB, Munro CL, Burnette-Curley D, et al. 
Immunization with FimA protects against Streptococcus 
parasanguis  endocarditis in rats. Infect Immun . 
1997;65:994.
93. Bensing BA, Sullam PM. An accessory sec locus of 
Streptococcus gordonii  is required for export of the surface 
protein GspB and for normal levels of binding to human 
platelets. Mol Microbiol . 2002;44:1081–1094.
94. Bensing BA, Gibson BW , Sullam PM. The Streptococcus 
gordonii  platelet binding protein GspB undergoes 
glycosylation independently of export. J Bacteriol . 
2004;186:638–645.
95. Takamatsu D, Bensing BA, Sullam PM. Four proteins 
encoded in the gspB-secY2A2 operon of Streptococcus 
gordonii  mediate the intracellular glycosylation of the 
platelet-binding protein GspB. J Bacteriol . 
2004;186:7100–7111.
96. Chen Y , Seepersaud R, Bensing BA, et al. Mechanism of a 
cytosolic O-glycosyltransferase essential for the synthesis 
of a bacterial adhesion protein. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2016;113:E1190–E1199.
97. Takamatsu D, Bensing BA, Cheng H, et al. Binding of the 
Streptococcus gordonii  surface glycoproteins GspB and 
Hsa to specific carbohydrate structures on platelet 
membrane glycoprotein Ibalpha. Mol Microbiol . 
2005;58:380–392.
98. Pyburn TM, Bensing BA, Xiong YQ, et al. A structural 
model for binding of the serine-rich repeat adhesin GspB 
to host carbohydrate receptors. PLoS Pathog . 
2011;7:e1002112.
99. Bensing BA, Khedri Z, Deng L, et al. Novel aspects of 
sialoglycan recognition by the Siglec-like domains of 
streptococcal SRR glycoproteins. Glycobiology . 
2016;26:1222–1234.
100. Deng L, Bensing BA, Thamadilok S, et al. Oral 
streptococci utilize a Siglec-like domain of serine-rich 
repeat adhesins to preferentially target platelet 
sialoglycans in human blood. PLoS Pathog . 
2014;10:e1004540.
101. Xiong YQ, Bensing BA, Bayer AS, et al. Role of the 
serine-rich surface glycoprotein GspB of Streptococcus 
gordonii  in the pathogenesis of infective endocarditis. 
Microb Pathog . 2008.102. Takahashi Y , Takashima E, Shimazu K, et al. Contribution 
of sialic acid-binding adhesin to pathogenesis of 
experimental endocarditis caused by Streptococcus 
gordonii  DL1. Infect Immun . 2006;74:740–743.
103. Mancini S, Menzi C, Oechslin F , et al. Antibodies 
targeting Hsa and PadA prevent platelet aggregation and 
protect rats against experimental endocarditis induced by. 
Infect Immun . 2016;84:3557–3563.
104. Siboo IR, Chambers HF , Sullam PM. Role of SraP , a 
serine-rich surface protein of Staphylococcus aureus , in 
binding to human platelets. Infect Immun . 2005;73:  
2273–2280.
105. Seo HS, Mu R, Kim BJ, et al. Binding of glycoprotein Srr1 
of Streptococcus agalactiae  to fibrinogen promotes 
attachment to brain endothelium and the development of 
meningitis. PLoS Pathog . 2012;8:e1002947.
106. Seo HS, Xiong YQ, Sullam PM. Role of the serine-rich 
surface glycoprotein Srr1 of Streptococcus agalactiae  in 
the pathogenesis of infective endocarditis. PLoS ONE . 
2013;8:e64204.
107. Sanchez CJ, Shivshankar P , Stol K, et al. The 
pneumococcal serine-rich repeat protein is an 
intra-species bacterial adhesin that promotes bacterial 
aggregation in vivo and in biofilms. PLoS Pathog .  
2010;6.
108. Bensing BA, Siboo IR, Sullam PM. Proteins PblA and 
PblB of Streptococcus mitis , which promote binding to 
human platelets, are encoded within a lysogenic 
bacteriophage. Infect Immun . 2001;69:6186–6192.
109. Siboo IR, Bensing BA, Sullam PM. Genomic organization 
and molecular characterization of SM1, a temperate 
bacteriophage of Streptococcus mitis . J Bacteriol . 
2003;185:6968–6975.
110. Seo HS, Xiong YQ, Mitchell J, et al. Bacteriophage lysin 
mediates the binding of Streptococcus mitis  to human 
platelets through interaction with fibrinogen. PLoS 
Pathog . 2010;6.
111. Seo HS, Sullam PM. Characterization of the fibrinogen 
binding domain of bacteriophage lysin from Streptococcus 
mitis . Infect Immun . 2011;79:3518–3526.
112. Mitchell J, Siboo IR, Takamatsu D, et al. Mechanism of 
cell surface expression of the Streptococcus mitis  platelet 
binding proteins PblA and PblB. Mol Microbiol . 
2007;64:844–857.
113. Scheld WM, Calderone RA, Alliegro GM, et al. Y east 
adherence in the pathogenesis of Candida  endocarditis. 
Proc Soc Exp Biol Med . 1981;168:208.
114. Scheld WM, Strunk RW , Balian G, et al. Microbial 
adhesion to fibronectin in vitro correlates with 
production of endocarditis in rabbits. Proc Soc Exp Biol 
Med . 1985;180:474.
115. Kuypers JM, Proctor RA. Reduced adherence to 
traumatized rat heart valves by a low-fibronectin-binding 
mutant of Staphylococcus aureus . Infect Immun . 
1989;57:2306.
116. Lowrance JH, Baddour LM, Simpson W A. The role of 
fibronectin binding in the rat model of experimental 
endocarditis caused by Streptococcus sanguis . J Clin Invest . 
1990;86:7.
117. Becker RC, DiBello PM, Lucas FV . Bacterial tissue 
tropism: an in vitro model for infective endocarditis. 
Cardiovasc Res . 1987;21:813.
118. Téllez A, Ambrosioni J, Llopis J, et al. Epidemiology, 
clinical features, and outcome of infective endocarditis 
due to Abiotrophia  species and Granulicatella  species: 
report of 76 cases, 2000–2015. Clin Infect Dis . 
2018;66:104–111.
119. Tart RC, van de Rijn I. Analysis of adherence of 
Streptococcus defectivus  and endocarditis-associated 
streptococci to extracellular matrix. Infect Immun . 
1991;59:857.
120. Sommer P , Gleyzal C, Guerret S, et al. Induction of a 
putative laminin-binding protein of Streptococcus gordonii  
in human infective endocarditis. Infect Immun . 
1992;60:360.
121. Vercellotti G, Lussenhop D, Peterson PK, et al. Bacterial 
adherence to fibronectin and endothelial cells: a possible 
mechanism for bacterial tissue tropism. J Lab Clin Med . 
1984;103:34.
122. Ogawa SK, Yurberg ER, Hather VB, et al. Bacterial 
adherence to human endothelial cells in vitro. Infect 
Immun . 1985;50:218.
123. Hamill RJ, Vann JM, Proctor RA. Phagocytosis of 
Staphylococcus aureus  by cultured bovine aortic-
endothelial cells: model for post adherence events in 
endovascular infections. Infect Immun . 1986;54:833.
124. Y ao L, Benjualid V , Lowy FB, et al. Internalization of 
Staphylococcus aureus  by endothelial cells induces 
cytokine gene expression. Infect Immun . 1995;63:1835.
125. Devitt D, Francois P , Vaudaux P , et al. Molecular 
characterization of the clumping factor (fibrinogen 
receptor) of Staphylococcus aureus . Mol Microbiol . 
1994;11:237.126. Moreillon P , Entenza JM, Francioli P , et al. Role of 
Staphylococcus aureus  coagulase and clumping factor in 
pathogenesis of experimental endocarditis. Infect Immun . 
1995;63:4738.
127. Flock J-I, Heinz SA, Heimdahl A, et al. Reconsideration 
of the role of fibronectin binding in endocarditis caused 
by Staphylococcus aureus . Infect Immun . 1996;64:  
1876.
128. Heinz SA, Schennings T, Heimdahl A, et al. Collagen 
binding of Staphylococcus aureus  is a virulence factor in 
experimental endocarditis. J Infect Dis . 1996;174:  
83.
129. Herrmann M, Suchard SJ, Boxer LA, et al. 
Thrombospondin binds to Staphylococcus aureus  and 
promotes staphylococcal adherence to surfaces. Infect 
Immun . 1991;59:279.
130. Bayer AS, Ramos MD, Menzies BE, et al. 
Hyperproduction of α-toxin by Staphylococcus aureus  
results in paradoxically reduced virulence in experimental 
endocarditis-host defense role for platelet microbicidal 
proteins. Infect Immun . 1997;65:4652.
131. Moreillon P , Que YA, Bayer AS. Pathogenesis of 
streptococcal and staphylococcal endocarditis. Infect Dis 
Clin North Am . 2002;16:297.
132. Piroth L, Que YA, Piu S, et al Cooperation between the 
fibrinogen and fibronectin binding domains of 
Staphylococcus aureus  FNBPA for infection in 
experimental endocarditis [abstract 4]. Abstracts of the 
Seventh International Symposium on Modern Concepts 
in Endocarditis and Cardiovascular Infections, 
Chamonix, France, June 26-28, 2003.
133. Que YA, Francois P , Haefliger JA, et al. Reassessing the 
role of Staphylococcus aureus  clumping factor and 
fibronectin-binding protein by expression in Lactococcus 
lactis . Infect Immun . 2001;69:6296.
134. Xiong YQ, Sharma-Kuinkel BK, Casillas-Ituarte NN, et al. 
Endovascular infections caused by methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus  are linked to clonal complex-
specific alterations in binding and invasion domains of 
fibronectin-binding protein A as well as the occurrence of 
fnbB . Infect Immun . 2015;83:4772.
135. Scheld WM, Zak O, Vosbeck K, et al. Bacterial adhesion 
in the pathogenesis of endocarditis: effect of 
subinhibitory antibiotic concentrations on streptococcal 
adhesion in vitro and the development of endocarditis in 
rabbits. J Clin Invest . 1981;68:1381.
136. Bernard J-P , Francioli P , Glauser MP , et al. Vancomycin 
prophylaxis of experimental Streptococcus sanguis  
endocarditis: inhibition of bacterial adherence rather than 
bacterial killing. J Clin Invest . 1981;68:1113.
137. Glauser MP , Francioli P . Successful prophylaxis against 
experimental streptococcal endocarditis with 
bacteriostatic antibiotics. J Infect Dis . 1982;146:806.
138. Lowry FD, Chang DS, Neuhaus EG, et al. Effect of 
penicillin on the adherence of Streptococcus sanguis  in 
vitro and in the rabbit model of endocarditis. J Clin 
Invest . 1983;71:668.
139. Glauser MP , Bernard JP , Moreillon P , et al. Successful 
single-dose amoxicillin prophylaxis against experimental 
streptococcal endocarditis: evidence for two mechanisms 
of protection. J Infect Dis . 1983;147:568.
140. Clawson CC, Rao Gunda HR, White JG. Platelet 
interaction with bacteria, IV . Stimulation of the release 
reaction. Am J Pathol . 1975;81:411.
141. Herzberg MC, Brintzenhofe KL, Clawson CC. 
Aggregation of human platelets and adhesion of 
Streptococcus sanguis . Infect Immun . 1983;39:1457.
142. Sullam PM, Valone FH, Mills J. Mechanisms of platelet 
aggregation by viridans group streptococci. Infect Immun . 
1987;55:1743.
143. Sullam PM, Jarvis GA, Valone FH. Role of 
immunoglobulin G in platelet aggregation by viridans 
group streptococci. Infect Immun . 1988;56:2907.
144. Herzberg MC, MacFarlane GD, Gong K, et al. The 
platelet interactivity phenotype of Streptococcus sanguis  
influences the course of experimental endocarditis. Infect 
Immun . 1992;60:4809.
145. Sullam PM, Costerton JW , Y amasaki R, et al. Inhibition 
of platelet binding and aggregation by streptococcal 
exopolysaccharide. J Infect Dis . 1993;167:1123.
146. Bayer AS, Sullam PM, Ramos M, et al. Staphylococcus 
aureus -induced platelet aggregation: a fibrinogen-
dependent mechanism that is integrin/RGD sequence-
independent. Infect Immun . 1995;63:3634.
147. Herrmann M, Hartleib J, Kehrel B, et al. Interaction of 
von Willebrand factor with Staphylococcus aureus . J Infect 
Dis. 1997;7:984.
148. Shenkman B, Varon D, Marinovitz U, et al Mechanisms 
of Staphylococcus aureus– induced platelet aggregation: 
involvement of glycoprotein Ib and glycoprotein IIb-IIIa 
[abstract 50]. Presented at the Annual Meeting of the 
Infectious Diseases Society of America, San Francisco, 
1995.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intravascular Infections 
1108.e3
149. Hartleib J, Kohler N, Dickinson RB, et al. Protein A is the 
von Willebrand factor binding protein on Staphylococcus 
aureus . Blood . 2000;96:2149.
150. Peerschke EI, Bayer AS, Ghebrehiwet B, et al. gC1qR/p33 
Blockade reduces Staphylococcus aureus  colonization  
of target tissues in an animal model of infective 
endocarditis. Infect Immun . 2006;74:4418.
151. Sullam PM, Bayer AS, Foss W , et al. Reduced platelet 
binding capacity of Staphylococcus aureus  in vitro 
diminishes induction frequency and metastatic 
complications of experimental endocarditis. Infect 
Immun . 1996;64:4915.
152. Siboo IR, Cheung AL, Bayer AS, et al. Clumping factor A 
mediates binding of Staphylococcus aureus  to human 
platelets. Infect Immun . 2001;69:3120.
153. Kupferwasser LI, Y eaman MR, Shapiro SM, et al. 
Beneficial effects of thrombin-induced platelet 
microbicidal peptide in experimental Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis. Circulation . 1999;100:I–149.
154. Y oussefian T, Drouin A, Massé JM, et al. Host defense 
role of platelets: engulfment of HIV and Staphylococcus 
aureus  occurs in a specific subcellular compartment and 
is enhanced by platelet activation. Blood . 2002;99:4021.
155. Y eaman MR, Puentes SM, Norman DC, et al. Partial 
characterization and staphylocidal activity of 
thrombin-induced platelet microbicidal protein. Infect 
Immun . 1992;60:1202.
156. Y ount NY , Gank KD, Xiong YQ, et al. Platelet 
microbicidal protein 1: structural themes of a 
multifunctional antimicrobial peptide. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2004;48:4395.
157. Krijgsveld J, Zaat SA, Meeldijk J, et al. Thrombocidins, 
microbicidal proteins from human blood platelets, are 
C-terminal deletion products of CXC chemokines. J Biol 
Chem . 2000;275:20374.
158. Y eaman MR, Norman DC, Bayer AS. Staphylococcus 
aureus  susceptibility to thrombin-induced platelet 
microbicidal protein is independent of platelet adherence 
and aggregation in vitro. Infect Immun . 1992;60:2368.
159. Y eaman MR, Ibrahim AS, Edwards JE Jr, et al. 
Thrombin-induced rabbit platelet microbicidal protein  
is fungicidal in vitro. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1993;37:546.
160. Nicolau DP , Freeman CD, Nightingale CH, et al. 
Reduction of bacterial titers by low-dose aspirin in 
experimental aortic valve endocarditis. Infect Immun . 
1993;61:1593.
161. Dankert J, van der Werff J, Saat SAJ, et al. Involvement of 
bactericidal factors from thrombin-stimulated platelets  
in clearance of adherent viridans streptococci in 
experimental infective endocarditis. Infect Immun . 
1995;63:633.
162. Wu T, Y eaman MR, Bayer AS. Resistance to platelet 
microbicidal protein in vitro among bacteremic 
staphylococcal and viridans streptococcal isolates 
correlates with an endocarditis source. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1994;38:729.
163. Dhawan V , Y eaman MR, Kim E, et al. Phenotypic 
resistance to thrombin-induced platelet microbicidal 
protein in vitro correlates with enhanced virulence in 
experimental endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus . 
Infect Immun . 1997;65:3293.
164. Dhawan VK, Bayer AS, Y eaman MR. Influence of in vitro 
susceptibility to thrombin-induced platelet microbicidal 
protein on the progression of experimental Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis. Infect Immun . 1998;66:3476.
165. Bayer AS, Cheng D, Y eaman MR, et al. In vitro resistance 
to thrombin-induced platelet microbicidal protein among 
clinical bacteremic isolates of Staphylococcus aureus  
correlates with an endovascular infectious source. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1998;42:3169.
166. Fowler VG Jr, McIntyre LM, Y eaman MR, et al. In vitro 
resistance to thrombin-induced platelet microbicidal 
protein in isolates of Staphylococcus aureus  from 
endocarditis patients correlates with an intravascular 
device source. J Infect Dis . 2000;182:1251.
167. Seidl K, Bayer AS, Fowler VG Jr, et al. Combinatorial 
phenotypic signatures distinguish persistent from 
resolving methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia isolates. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2011;52:575.
168. Xiong YQ, Fowler VG, Y eaman MR, et al. Phenotypic and 
genotypic characteristics of persistent methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia in vitro and in 
an experimental endocarditis model. J Infect Dis . 
2009;199:201.
169. Fowler VG Jr, Sakoulas G, McIntyre LM, et al. Persistent 
bacteremia due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  infection is associated with agr dysfunction and 
low-level in vitro resistance to thrombin-induced platelet 
microbicidal protein. J Infect Dis . 2004;190:1140.
170. Ferguson DJP , McColm AA, Ryan DM, et al. A 
morphological study of experimental staphylococcal endocarditis and aortitis, II. Inter-relationship of bacteria, 
vegetation and cardiovasculature in established infections. 
Br J Exp Pathol . 1986;67:679.
171. Durack DT, Beeson PB. Experimental bacterial 
endocarditis, II. Survival of bacteria in endocardial 
vegetations. Br J Exp Pathol . 1972;53:50.
172. Y ersin BR, Glauser MP , Freedman LR. Effect of nitrogen 
mustard on natural history of right-sided streptococcal 
endocarditis: role of cellular host defenses. Infect Immun . 
1982;35:320.
173. Meddens MJM, Thompson J, Eulderink F , et al. Role of 
granulocytes in experimental Streptococcus sanguis  
endocarditis. Infect Immun . 1982;36:325.
174. Meddens MJM, Thompson J, Mattie H, et al. Role of 
granulocytes in the prevention and therapy of 
experimental Streptococcus sanguis endocarditis  in rabbits. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1984;25:263.
175. Hook EW III, Sande MA. Role of the vegetation in 
experimental Streptococcus viridans  endocarditis. Infect 
Immun . 1974;10:1433.
176. Thorig L, Thompson J, Eulderink F , et al. Effects of 
monocytopenia and anticoagulation in experimental 
Streptococcus sanguis  endocarditis. Br J Exp Pathol . 
1980;61:108.
177. van Ginkel CJW , Thorig L, Thompson J, et al. 
Enhancement of generation of monocyte tissue 
thromboplastin by bacterial phagocytosis: possible 
pathway for fibrin formation on infected vegetations in 
bacterial endocarditis. Infect Immun . 1979;25:388.
178. Drake TA, Rodgers GM, Sande MA. Tissue factor is a 
major stimulus for vegetation formation in enterococcal 
endocarditis in rabbits. J Clin Invest . 1984;73:1750.
179. Drake TA, Pang M. Staphylococcus aureus  induces tissue 
factor expression in cultured human cardiac valve 
endothelium. J Infect Dis . 1988;157:749.
180. Y ao L, Berman JW , Factor SM, et al. Correlation of 
histopathologic and bacteriologic changes with cytokine 
gene expression in an experimental murine model of 
bacteremic Staphylococcus aureus  infection. Infect Immun . 
1997;65:3889.
181. Beekhuizen H, van de Gevel JS, Veltrop MHAM, et al 
Bacterial colonization of vascular endothelium in the 
pathogenesis of endocarditis [abstract 145]. Presented at 
the Fourth International Symposium on Modern 
Concepts in Endocarditis and Cardiovascular Infections, 
Yverdon, Switzerland, May 24-26, 1997.
182. Veltrop MHAM, Beekhuizen H, Thompson J 
Procoagulant properties of endothelial cells after infection 
with bacteria [abstract 148]. Presented at the Fourth 
International Symposium on Modern Concepts in 
Endocarditis and Cardiovascular Infections, Yverdon, 
Switzerland, 1997.
183. Bansci MJ, Veltrop MH, Bertina RM, et al. Influence of 
monocytes and antibiotic treatment on tissue factor 
activity of endocardial vegetations in rabbits infected with 
Streptococcus sanguis . Infect Immun . 1996;64:448.
184. Mair W . Pneumococcal endocarditis in rabbits. J Pathol 
Bacteriol . 1923;26:426.
185. Scheld WM, Thomas JH, Sande MA. Influence of 
preformed antibody on experimental Streptococcus 
sanguis  endocarditis. Infect Immun . 1979;25:781.
186. Durack DT, Gilliland BC, Petersdorf RG. Effect of 
immunization on susceptibility to experimental 
Streptococcus mutans  and Streptococcus sanguis  
endocarditis. Infect Immun . 1978;22:52.
187. van de Rijn I. Analysis of cross-protection between 
serotypes and passively transferred immune globulin in 
experimental nutritionally variant streptococcal 
endocarditis. Infect Immun . 1988;56:117.
188. Scheld WM, Calderone RA, Brodeur JP , et al. Influence of 
preformed antibody on the pathogenesis of experimental 
Candida albicans  endocarditis. Infect Immun . 1983;40:950.
189. Greenberg DP , Ward JI, Bayer AS. Influence of 
Staphylococcus aureus  antibody on experimental 
endocarditis in rabbits. Infect Immun . 1987;55:3030.
190. Sieling PJ, van de Rijn I. Evaluation of the immune 
response in protection against experimental Streptococcus 
defectivus  endocarditis. J Lab Clin Med . 1991;117:402.
191. Albus A, Arbeit RD, Lee JC. Virulence of Staphylococcus 
aureus  mutants altered in type 5 capsule production. 
Infect Immun . 1991;59:1008.
192. Lee JC, Park J-S, Shepherd SE, et al. Protective efficacy of 
antibodies to the Staphylococcus aureus  type 5 capsular 
polysaccharide in a rat model of endocarditis. Infect 
Immun . 1997;65:4146.
193. Bayer AS, Ing M, Kim E, et al Role of anticapsular IgG in 
modifying the course of experimental Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis. Presented at the Thirty-sixth 
Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and 
Chemotherapy, Washington, DC, 1996.
194. Shinefield H, Black S, Fattom A, et al. Use of a 
Staphylococcus aureus  conjugate vaccine in patients 
receiving hemodialysis. N Engl J Med . 2002;346:491.195. DeJonge M, Burchfield D, Bloom B, et al. Clinical trial of 
safety and efficacy of INH-A21 for the prevention of 
nosocomial staphylococcal bloodstream infection in 
premature infants. J Pediatr . 2007;151:260.
196. Rupp ME, Holley HP Jr, Lutz J, et al. A phase II, 
randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-
controlled, trial of a polyclonal anti- Staphylococcus aureus  
capsular polysaccharide immune globulin in the 
treatment of Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2007;51:4249.
197. Weems JJ Jr, Steinberg JP , Filler S, et al. A phase II, 
randomized, double-blind, multi-center study comparing 
safety and pharmacokinetics of tefibazumab to placebo 
for the treatment of Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2006;50:2751.
198. Juttukonda LJ, Berends ETM, Zackular JP , et al. Dietary 
manganese promotes staphylococcal infection of the 
heart. Cell Host Microbe . 2017;22:531.
199. Juttukonda LJ, Berends ETM, Zackular JP , et al. Dietary 
manganese promotes staphylococcal infection of the 
heart. Cell Host Microbe . 2017;22:531.
200. Williams RC, Kunkel HG. Rheumatoid factors and their 
disappearance following therapy in patients with SBE. 
Arthritis Rheum . 1962;5:126.
201. Sheagren JN, Tuazon CV , Griffin C, et al. Rheumatoid 
factor in acute bacterial endocarditis. Arthritis Rheum . 
1976;19:887.
202. Phair JP , Clarke J. Immunology of infective endocarditis. 
Prog Cardiovasc Dis . 1979;22:137.
203. Bacon PA, Davidson C, Smith B. Antibodies to Candida  
and autoantibodies in subacute bacterial endocarditis. 
QJM . 1974;43:537.
204. Laxdal T, Messner RP , Williams RC. Opsonic, 
agglutinating, and complement-fixing antibodies in 
patients with subacute bacterial endocarditis. J Lab Clin 
Med . 1968;71:638.
205. Horwitz D, Quismorio FP , Friou GJ. Cryoglobulinemia in 
patients with infectious endocarditis. Clin Exp Immunol . 
1975;19:131.
206. Qoronfleh MW , Weraarchakul W , Wilkinson BJ. 
Antibodies to a range of Staphylococcus aureus  and 
Escherichia coli  heat shock proteins in sera from patients 
with S. aureus  endocarditis. Infect Immun . 1993;61:  
1567.
207. Langlois V , Lesourd A, Girszyn N, et al. Antineutrophil 
cytoplasmic antibodies associated with infective 
endocarditis. Medicine (Baltimore) . 2016;95:e2564.
208. Bayer AS, Theofilopoulos AN, Eisenberg R, et al. 
Circulating immune complexes in infective endocarditis. 
N Engl J Med . 1976;295:1500.
209. Gutman RA, Striker GE, Gilliland BC, et al. The immune 
complex glomerulonephritis of bacterial endocarditis. 
Medicine (Baltimore) . 1972;51:1.
210. Le MV , Lacassin F , Delahousse M, et al. Use of 
corticosteroids in glomerulonephritis related to infective 
endocarditis: three cases and review. Clin Infect Dis . 
1999;28:1057.
211. Levy RL, Hong R. The immune nature of subacute 
bacterial endocarditis (SBE) nephritis. Am J Med . 
1973;54:645.
212. Inman RD, Redecha PB, Knechtle SJ, et al. Identification 
of bacterial antigens in circulating immune complexes of 
infective endocarditis. J Clin Invest . 1982;70:271.
213. Alpert JS, Krous HF , Dalen JE, et al. Pathogenesis of 
Osler’s nodes. Ann Intern Med . 1976;85:471.
214. Lowenstein MB, Urman JD, Abeles M, et al. Skin 
immunofluorescence in infective endocarditis. JAMA . 
1977;238:1163.
215. Cabane J, Godeau P , Herreman G, et al. Fate of 
circulating immune complexes in infective endocarditis. 
Am J Med . 1979;66:277.
216. Kauffman RH, Thompson J, Valentijn RM, et al. The 
clinical implications and the pathogenetic significance of 
circulating immune complexes in infective endocarditis. 
Am J Med . 1981;71:17.
217. Morris AJ, Drinkovic D, Pottumarthy S, et al. Gram stain, 
culture, and histopathological examination findings for 
heart valves removed because of infective endocarditis. 
Clin Infect Dis . 2003;36:697.
218. McFarland MM. Pathology of infective endocarditis. In: 
Kaye D, ed. Infective Endocarditis . New Y ork: Raven Press; 
1992:57.
219. Roberts WC. Characteristics and consequences of 
infective endocarditis (active or healed or both) learned 
from morphologic studies. In: Rahimtoola SH, ed. 
Infective Endocarditis . New Y ork: Grune & Stratton; 
1978:55.
220. Miro JM, del Rio A, Mestres CA. Infective endocarditis 
and cardiac surgery in intravenous drug abusers and 
HIV-1 infected patients. Cardiol Clin . 2003;21:167.
221. Paterson DL, Dominguez EA, Chang FY , et al. Infective 
endocarditis in solid organ transplant recipients. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1998;26:689.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1108.e4
Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes222. Morel-Maroger L, Sraer JD, Herreman G, et al. Kidney  
in subacute endocarditis: pathological and 
immunofluorescence findings. Arch Pathol . 1972;94:  
205.
223. Anderson CB, Butcher HR, Ballinger WF . Mycotic 
aneurysms. Arch Surg . 1974;109:712.
224. Duval X, Iung B, Klein I, et al. Effect of early cerebral 
magnetic resonance imaging on clinical decisions in 
infective endocarditis: a prospective study. Ann Intern 
Med . 2010;152:497.
225. Mylonakis E, Calderwood SB. Infective endocarditis in 
adults. N Engl J Med . 2001;345:1318.
226. Snygg-Martin U, Gustafsson L, Rosengren L, et al. 
Cerebrovascular complications in patients with left-sided 
infective endocarditis are common: a prospective study 
using magnetic resonance imaging and neurochemical 
brain damage markers. Clin Infect Dis . 2008;47:23.
227. Dickerman SA, Abrutyn E, Barsic B, et al. The 
relationship between the initiation of antimicrobial 
therapy and the incidence of stroke in infective 
endocarditis: an analysis from the ICE-PCS study. Am 
Heart J . 2007;154:1086.
228. Greenlee JE, Mandell GL. Neurological manifestations of 
infective endocarditis: a review. Stroke . 1973;4:958.
229. Masuda J, Yutani C, Waki R, et al. Histopathologic 
analysis of the mechanisms of intracranial hemorrhage 
complicating infective endocarditis. Stroke . 1992;23:843.
230. Changchien CS, Tsai TL, Hu TH, et al. Sonographic 
patterns of splenic abscess: an analysis of 34 proven cases. 
Abdom Imaging . 2002;27:739.
231. Ng KK, Lee TY , Wan YL, et al. Splenic abscess: diagnosis 
and management. Hepatogastroenterology . 2002;49:567.
232. Thanos L, Dailiana T, Papaioannou G, et al. Percutaneous 
CT-guided drainage of splenic abscess. AJR Am J 
Roentgenol . 2002;179:629.
233. Kerr A Jr, Tan JS. Biopsies of the Janeway lesion of 
infective endocarditis. J Cutan Pathol . 1979;6:124.
234. Silverberg HH. Roth spots. Mt Sinai J Med . 1970;37:77.
235. Starkebaum M, Durack D, Beeson P . The “incubation 
period” of subacute bacterial endocarditis. Yale J Biol 
Med . 1977;50:49.
236. Espersen F , Frimodt-Moller N. Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis: review of 119 cases. Arch Intern Med . 
1986;146:1118.
237. Roder BL, Wandall DA, Frimodt-Moller N, et al. Clinical 
features of Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis: a 10-year 
experience in Denmark. Arch Intern Med . 1999;159:462.
238. Figueiredo LT, Ruiz-Junior E, Schirmbeck T. Infective 
endocarditis (IE) first diagnosed at autopsy: analysis of 31 
cases in Ribeirao Preto, Brazil. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao 
Paulo . 2001;43:213.
239. Fernández Guerrero ML, Alvarez B, Manzarbeitia F , et al. 
Infective endocarditis at autopsy: a review of pathologic 
manifestations and clinical correlates. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 2012;91:152–164.
240. Terpenning MS, Buggy BP , Kauffman CA. Infective 
endocarditis: clinical features in young and elderly 
patients. Am J Med . 1987;83:626.
241. Bradley SF . Staphylococcus aureus  infections and 
antibiotic resistance in older adults. Clin Infect Dis . 
2002;34:211.
242. Lederman MM, Sprague L, Wallis RS, et al. Duration of 
fever during treatment of infective endocarditis. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1992;71:52.
243. Blumberg EA, Robbins N, Adimora A, et al. Persistent 
fever in association with infective endocarditis. Clin Infect 
Dis. 1992;15:983.
244. Espersen F , Frimodt-Moller N. Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis: a review of 119 cases. Arch Intern Med . 
1986;146:1118.
245. Kiefer T, Park L, Tribouilloy C, et al. Association between 
valvular surgery and mortality among patients with 
infective endocarditis complicated by heart failure. JAMA . 
2011;306:2239–2247.
246. Charney R, Keltz TN, Attai L, et al. Acute valvular 
obstruction from streptococcal endocarditis. Am Heart J . 
1993;125:544.
247. Ting W , Silverman NA, Arzaman DA, et al. Splenic septic 
emboli in endocarditis. Circulation . 1990;82(5 
suppl):IV105.
248. Mansur AJ, Grinberg M, DaLuz PL, et al. The 
complications of infective endocarditis: a reappraisal in 
the 1980s. Arch Intern Med . 1992;152:2428.
249. Churchill MA, Geraci JE, Hunder GG. Musculoskeletal 
manifestations of bacterial endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 
1977;87:754.
250. Herzog CA, Henry TD, Zimmer SD. Bacterial 
endocarditis presenting as acute myocardial infarction: a 
cautionary note for the era of reperfusion. Am J Med . 
1991;90:392.
251. Sonneville R, Mirabel M, Hajage F , et al. Neurologic 
complications and outcomes of infective endocarditis in 
critically ill patients: the ENDOcardite en REAnimation prospective multicenter study. Crit Care Med . 2011;39:  
1474–1481.
252. Tunkel AR, Kaye D. Neurologic complications of infective 
endocarditis. Neurol Clin . 1993;11:419.
253. Selky AK, Roos KL. Neurologic complications of infective 
endocarditis. Semin Neurol . 1995;12:225.
254. Heiro M, Nikoskelainen J, Engblom E, et al. Neurologic 
manifestations of infective endocarditis: a 17-year 
experience in a teaching hospital in Finland. Arch Intern 
Med . 2000;160:2781.
255. Bayer AS, Theofilopoulos AN, Eisenberg R, et al. 
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-like syndrome 
associated with infective endocarditis: a possible immune 
complex disorder. JAMA . 1977;238:408.
256. Levine DP , Crane LR, Zervos MJ. Bacteremia in narcotic 
addicts at the Detroit Medical Center, II. Infectious 
endocarditis: a prospective comparative study. Rev Infect 
Dis. 1986;8:374.
257. Marantz PR, Linzer M, Feiner CJ, et al. Inability to 
predict diagnosis in febrile intravenous drug abusers. Ann 
Intern Med . 1987;106:823.
258. Weisse AB, Heller DR, Schimenti RJ, et al. The febrile 
parenteral drug user: a prospective study in 121 patients. 
Am J Med . 1993;94:274.
259. Chambers HF , Morris DL, Tauber MG, et al. Cocaine use 
and the risk for endocarditis in intravenous drug users. 
Ann Intern Med . 1987;106:833.
260. Carozza A, De Santo LS, Romano G, et al. Infective 
endocarditis in intravenous drug abusers: patterns of 
presentation and long-term outcomes of surgical 
treatment. J Heart Valve Dis . 2006;15:125.
261. Chambers HF , Korzeniowski OM, Sande MA, et al. 
Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis: clinical manifestations 
in addicts and nonaddicts. Medicine (Baltimore) . 
1983;62:170.
262. Sklaver AR, Hoffman TA, Greenman RL. Staphylococcal 
endocarditis in addicts. South Med J . 1978;71:638.
263. Thadepalli H, Francis CK. Diagnostic clues in metastatic 
lesions of endocarditis in addicts. West J Med . 1978;128:1.
264. Wilson LE, Thomas DL, Astemborski J, et al. Prospective 
study of infective endocarditis among injection drug 
users. J Infect Dis . 2002;185:1761.
265. Nahass RG, Weinstein MP , Bartels J, et al. Infectious 
endocarditis in intravenous drug users: a comparison of 
human immunodeficiency virus type-1-negative and 
-positive patients. J Infect Dis . 1990;162:967.
266. Kaell AT, Volkman DJ, Gorevic PD, et al. Positive Lyme 
serology in subacute bacterial endocarditis. JAMA . 
1990;264:2916.
267. McCartney AC, Orange GV , Pringle SD, et al. Serum C 
reactive protein in infective endocarditis. J Clin Pathol . 
1988;41:44.
268. Wiseman J, Rouleau J, Rigo P , et al. Gallium-67 
myocardial imaging for the detection of bacterial 
endocarditis. Radiology . 1976;120:135.
269. Wong DW , Dhawan VK, Tanaka T, et al. Imaging 
endocarditis with technetium 99m–labeled antibody: an 
experimental study. Concise communication. J Nucl Med . 
1982;23:229.
270. Riba AL, Thakur ML, Gottschalk A, et al. Imaging 
experimental infective endocarditis with indium-111-
labeled blood cellular components. Circulation . 
1979;59:336.
271. Vos FJ, Bleeker-Rovers CP , Kullberg BJ, et al. 
Cost-effectiveness of routine 18F-FDG PET/CT in 
high-risk patients with gram-positive bacteremia. J Nucl 
Med . 2011;52:1673.
272. Saby L, Laas O, Habib G, et al. Positron emission 
tomography/computed tomography for diagnosis of 
prosthetic valve endocarditis: increased valvular 
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake as a novel major criterion. 
J Am Coll Cardiol . 2013;23:2374.
273. Beeson PB, Brannon ES, Warren JV . Observations on the 
sites of removal of bacteria from the blood of patients 
with bacterial endocarditis. J Exp Med . 1945;81:9.
274. Werner AS, Cobbs CG, Kaye D, et al. Studies on the 
bacteremia of bacterial endocarditis. JAMA . 1967;202:199.
275. Pazin GJ, Saul S, Thompson ME. Blood culture positivity: 
suppression by outpatient antibiotic therapy in patients 
with bacterial endocarditis. Arch Intern Med . 
1982;142:263.
276. McKenzie R, Reimer LG. Effect of antimicrobials on 
blood cultures in endocarditis. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 
1987;8:165.
277. Aronson MD, Bos DH. Blood cultures. Ann Intern Med . 
1987;106:246.
278. Washington JA II, Ilstrup DM. Blood cultures: issues and 
controversies. Rev Infect Dis . 1986;8:792.
279. Washington JAII. The role of the microbiology laboratory 
in the diagnosis and antimicrobial treatment of infective 
endocarditis. Mayo Clin Proc . 1982;57:22.
280. Baron EJ, Scott JD, Tompkins LS. Prolonged incubation 
and extensive subculturing do not increase recovery of clinically significant microorganisms from standard 
automated blood cultures. Clin Infect Dis . 2005;41:  
1677.
281. Carey RB, Gross KC, Roberts RB. Vitamin-B6–dependent 
Streptococcus mitior (mitis)  isolated from patients with 
systemic infections. J Infect Dis . 1975;131:722.
282. Cannady PB, Sanford JP . Negative blood cultures in 
infective endocarditis: a review. South Med J . 
1976;69:1420.
283. Tunkel AR, Kaye D. Endocarditis with negative blood 
cultures. N Engl J Med . 1992;326:1215.
284. Walker RC, Henry NK, Washington JA II, et al. 
Lysis-centrifugation blood culture technique: clinical 
impact in Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. Arch Intern 
Med . 1986;146:2341.
285. Washington JAII. The microbiological diagnosis of 
infective endocarditis. J Antimicrob Chemother . 
1987;20(supplA):29.
286. Petti CA, Bhally HS, Weinstein MP , et al. Utility of 
extended blood culture incubation for isolation of 
Haemophilus, Actinobacillus, Cardiobacterium, Eikenella,  
and Kingella  organisms: a retrospective multicenter 
evaluation. J Clin Microbiol . 2006;44:257.
287. Austin SM, Smith SM, Co B, et al. Serologic evidence of 
acute murine typhus infection in a patient with 
culturenegative endocarditis. Am J Med Sci . 1987;293:320.
288. Shapiro DS, Kenney SC, Johnson M, et al. Chlamydia 
psittaci  endocarditis diagnosed by blood culture. N Engl J 
Med . 1992;326:1192.
289. Tompkins LS, Roessler BJ, Redd SC, et al. Legionella  
prosthetic valve endocarditis. N Engl J Med . 1988;318:530.
290. Spach DH, Kanter AS, Daniels NA, et al. Bartonella 
(Rochalimaea)  species as a cause of apparent 
“culture-negative” endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 
1995;20:1044.
291. Larson AM, Cougherty MJ, Nowowiejski DJ, et al. 
Detection of Bartonella (Rochalimaea)  by routine acridine 
orange staining of broth blood cultures. J Clin Microbiol . 
1994;32:1492.
292. Spach DH, Kanter AS, Dougherty MJ, et al. Bartonella 
(Rochalimaea) quintana  bacteremia in inner-city patients 
with chronic alcoholism. N Engl J Med . 1995;332:419.
293. Drancourt M, Mainardi JL, Brouqui P , et al. Bartonella 
(Rochalimaea) quintana  endocarditis in three homeless 
men. N Engl J Med . 1995;332:424.
294. Raoult D, Fournier PE, Drancourt M, et al. Diagnosis of 
22 new cases of Bartonella  endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 
1996;125:646.
295. Fenollar F , Lepidi H, Raoult D. Whipple’s endocarditis: 
review of the literature and comparisons with Q fever, 
Bartonella  infection, and blood culture-positive 
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2001;33:1309–1316.
296. Lepidi H, Houpikian P , Liang Z, et al. Cardiac valves in 
patients with Q fever endocarditis: microbiological, 
molecular, and histologic studies. J Infect Dis . 
2003;187:1097.
297. Brouqui P , Dumler JS, Raoult D. Immunohistologic 
demonstration of Coxiella burnetii  in the valves of 
patients with Q fever endocarditis. Am J Med . 
1994;97:451.
298. Piper C, Horstkotte D, Korfer R, et al. 23S rDNA 
real-time polymerase chain reaction of heart valves: a 
decisive tool in the diagnosis of infective endocarditis. 
Eur Heart J . 2010;31:1105.
299. Fournier PE, Thuny F , Richet H, et al. Comprehensive 
diagnostic strategy for blood culture-negative 
endocarditis: a prospective study of 819 new cases. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2010;51:131.
300. Bosshard PP , Kronenberg A, Zbinden R, et al. Etiologic 
diagnosis of infective endocarditis by broad-range 
polymerase chain reaction: a 3 year experience. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2003;37:167.
301. Walterspiel JN, Kaplan SL. Incidence and clinical 
characteristics of “culture-negative” infective endocarditis 
in a pediatric population. Pediatr Infect Dis . 1986;5:  
328.
302. Baddley JW , Benjamin DK Jr, Patel M, et al. International 
Collaboration on Endocarditis–Prospective Cohort Study. 
Candida  infective endocarditis. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect 
Dis. 2008;27:519.
303. Mayayo E, Moralejo J, Camps J, et al. Fungal endocarditis 
in premature infants: case report and review. Clin Infect 
Dis. 1996;22:366.
304. Nasser RM, Melgar GR, Longworth DL, et al. Incidence 
and risk of developing fungal prosthetic valve 
endocarditis after nosocomial candidemia. Am J Med . 
1997;103:25.
305. Rubenstein E, Noriega ER, Simberkoff MS, et al. Fungal 
endocarditis: analysis of 24 cases and review of the 
literature. Medicine (Baltimore) . 1975;54:331.
306. Merz WG, Evans GL, Shadomy S, et al. Laboratory 
evaluation of serological tests for systemic candidiasis: a 
cooperative study. J Clin Microbiol . 1977;5:596.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intravascular Infections 
1108.e5
307. Warren RC, Bartlett A, Bidwell DE, et al. Diagnosis of 
invasive candidosis by enzyme immunoassay of serum 
antigen. BMJ . 1977;1:1183.
308. Scheld WM, Brown RS Jr, Harding SA, et al. Detection of 
circulating antigen in experimental Candida albicans  
endocarditis by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. 
J Clin Microbiol . 1980;12:679.
309. Dillan JC, Feigenbaum H, Konecke LL, et al. 
Echocardiographic manifestations of valvular vegetations. 
Am Heart J . 1973;86:698.
310. Melvin ET, Berger M, Lutzker LG, et al. Noninvasive 
methods for detection of valve vegetations in infective 
endocarditis. Am J Cardiol . 1981;47:271.
311. Mintz GS, Kotler MN. Clinical value and limitations of 
echocardiography: its use in the study of patients with 
infectious endocarditis. Arch Intern Med . 1980;140:  
1022.
312. Habib G, Badano L, Tribouilloy C, et al. 
Recommendations for the practice of echocardiography 
in infective endocarditis. Eur J Echocardiogr . 
2010;11:202–219.
313. Kuruppu JC, Corretti M, Mackowiak P , et al. Overuse of 
transthoracic echocardiography in the diagnosis of native 
valve endocarditis. Arch Intern Med . 2002;162:1715.
314. Davis RS, Strom JA, Frishman W , et al. The 
demonstration of vegetations by echocardiography in 
bacterial endocarditis: an indication for early surgical 
intervention. Am J Med . 1980;57:69.
315. Martin RP , Mettzer RS, Chia EL, et al. Clinical utility of 
two dimensional echocardiography in infective 
endocarditis. Am J Cardiol . 1980;46:379.
316. Steckelberg JM, Murphy JG, Ballard D, et al. Emboli in 
infective endocarditis: the prognostic value of 
echocardiography. Ann Intern Med . 1991;114:635.
317. Rohmann S, Erbel R, Gorge G, et al. Clinical relevance of 
vegetation localization by transesophageal 
echocardiography in infective endocarditis. Eur Heart J . 
1992;13:446.
318. Bayer AS, Blomquist IK, Bello E, et al. Tricuspid valve 
endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus:  correlation of 
two-dimensional echocardiography with clinical outcome. 
Chest . 1988;93:247.
319. Tischler MD, Vaitkus PT. The ability of vegetation size on 
echocardiography to predict clinical complications: a 
meta-analysis. J Am Soc Echocardiogr . 1997;10:562.
320. Manolis AS, Melita H. Echocardiographic and clinical 
correlates in drug addicts with infective endocarditis: 
implication of vegetation size. Arch Intern Med . 
1988;148:2461.
321. Rohmann S, Erbel R, Darius H, et al. Prediction of rapid 
versus prolonged healing of infective endocarditis by 
monitoring vegetation size. J Am Soc Echocardiogr . 
1991;4:465.
322. Di Salvo G, Habib G, Pergola V , et al. Echocardiography 
predicts embolic events in infective endocarditis. J Am 
Coll Cardiol . 2001;37:1069.
323. SanFilippo AJ, Picard MH, Newell JB, et al. 
Echocardiographic assessment of patients with infective 
endocarditis. J Am Coll Cardiol . 1991;18:1191.
324. Sachdev M, Peterson GE, Jollis JG. Imaging techniques 
for diagnosis of infective endocarditis. Infect Dis Clin 
North Am . 2002;16:319.
325. Heinle S, Wilderman N, Harrison JK, et al. Value of 
transthoracic echocardiography in predicting embolic 
events in active infective endocarditis: Duke Endocarditis 
Service. Am J Cardiol . 1994;74:799.
326. Lauridsen TK, Selton-Suty C, Tong S, et al. 
Echocardiographic agreement in the diagnostic 
evaluation for infective endocarditis. Int J Cardiovasc 
Imaging . 2016;32:1041–1051.
327. Shapiro SM, Bayer AS. Transesophageal and Doppler 
echocardiography in the diagnosis and management of 
infective endocarditis. Chest . 1991;100:1125.
328. Pearlman AS. Transesophageal echocardiography: sound 
diagnostic technique or two-edged sword? N Engl J Med . 
1991;324:841.
329. Chamis AL, Gesty-Palmer D, Fowler VG, et al. 
Echocardiography for the diagnosis of Staphylococcus 
aureus  infective endocarditis. Curr Infect Dis Rep . 
1999;1:129.
330. Erbel R, Rohmann S, Drexler M, et al. Improved 
diagnostic value of echocardiography in patients with 
infective endocarditis by transesophageal approach: a 
prospective study. Eur Heart J . 1988;9:43.
331. Mügge A, Daniel WG, Frank G, et al. Echocardiography 
in infective endocarditis: reassessment of prognostic 
implications of vegetation size determined by the 
transthoracic and transesophageal approach. J Am Coll 
Cardiol . 1989;14:631.
332. Sochowski RA, Chan K-L. Implication of negative results 
on a monoplane transesophageal echocardiographic study 
in patients with suspected infective endocarditis. J Am 
Coll Cardiol . 1993;21:216.333. Pfister R, Betton Y , Freyhaus HT, et al. Three-dimensional 
compared to two-dimensional transesophageal 
echocardiography for diagnosis of infective endocarditis. 
Infection . 2016;44:725–731.
334. Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et al. Infective 
endocarditis: diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy and 
management of complications. Circulation . 
2005;111:3167.
335. Carpenter JL. Perivalvular extension of infection in 
patients with infectious endocarditis. Rev Infect Dis . 
1991;13:127.
336. Daniel WG, Mügge A, Martin RP , et al. Improvement in 
the diagnosis of abscesses associated with endocarditis  
by transesophageal echocardiography. N Engl J Med . 
1991;324:795.
337. De Castro S, Cartoni D, d’ Amati G, et al. Diagnostic 
accuracy of transthoracic and multiplane transesophageal 
echocardiography for valvular perforation in acute 
infective endocarditis: correlation with anatomic findings. 
Clin Infect Dis . 2000;30:825.
338. Rallidis LS, Komninos KA, Papasteriadis EG. 
Pacemaker-related endocarditis: the value of 
transoesophageal echocardiography in diagnosis and 
treatment. Acta Cardiol . 2003;58:31.
339. Sawhney N, Palakodeti V , Raisinghani A, et al. Eustachian 
valve endocarditis: a case series and analysis of the 
literature. J Am Soc Echocardiogr . 2001;14:1139.
340. Werner GS, Schulz R, Fuchs JB, et al. Infective 
endocarditis in the elderly in the era of transesophageal 
echocardiography: clinical features and prognosis 
compared with younger patients. Am J Med . 1996;100:90.
341. Daniel WG, Erbel R, Kasper W , et al. Safety of 
transesophageal echocardiography: a multicenter survey 
of 10419 examinations. Circulation . 1991;83:817.
342. Heidenreich PA, Masoudi FA, Maini B, et al. 
Echocardiography in patients with suspected 
endocarditis: a cost-effectiveness analysis. Am J Med . 
1999;107:198.
343. Rosen AB, Fowler VG, Corey GR, et al. Cost-effectiveness 
of transesophageal echocardiography to determine the 
duration of therapy for intravascular catheter-associated 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. Ann Intern Med . 
1999;130:810.
344. Sivak JA, Vora AN, Navar AM, et al. An approach to 
improve the negative predictive value and clinical utility 
of transthoracic echocardiography in suspected native 
valve infective endocarditis. J Am Soc Echocardiogr . 
2016;29:315–322.
345. Mann T, McLaurin L, Grossman W , et al. Assessing the 
hemodynamic severity of acute aortic regurgitation due 
to infective endocarditis. N Engl J Med . 1975;293:108.
346. Welton DE, Y oung JB, Raizner AE, et al. Value and safety 
of cardiac catheterization during active infective 
endocarditis. Am J Cardiol . 1979;44:1306.
347. Durack DT, Lukes AS, Bright DK, et al. New criteria  
for diagnosis of infective endocarditis. Am J Med . 
1994;96:200.
348. Li JS, Sexton DJ, Mick N, et al. Proposed modifications  
to the Duke criteria for the diagnosis of infective 
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2000;30:633.
349. Dajani AS, Ayoub E, Bierman FZ, et al. Guidelines for the 
diagnosis of rheumatic fever: Jones criteria, 1992 update. 
JAMA . 1992;69:203.
350. Federspiel JJ, Stearns SC, Peppercorn AF , et al. 
Endocarditis trends in the United States demonstrate 
increasing rates of Staphylococcus aureus : 1999-2008. Arch 
Intern Med . 2012;172:363.
351. Baddour LM, Bisno AL. Infective endocarditis 
complicating mitral valve prolapse: epidemiologic, 
clinical, and microbiologic aspects. Rev Infect Dis . 
1986;8:117.
352. Roberts RB, Krieger AG, Schiller NL, et al. Viridans 
streptococcal endocarditis: the role of various species, 
including pyridoxal-dependent streptococci. Rev Infect 
Dis. 1979;1:955.
353. Hoen B, Alla F , Selton-Suty C, et al; Association pour 
l’Étude et la Prevention de l’Endocardité Infectieuse 
(AEPEI) Study Group. Changing profile of infective 
endocarditis: results of a 1-year survey in France. JAMA . 
2002;288:75.
354. Olmos C, Vilacosta I, Sarria C, et al. Streptococcus bovis  
endocarditis: update from a multicenter registry. Am 
Heart J . 2016;171:7–13.
355. Hamoudi AC, Hribar MM, Marcon MJ, et al. Clinical 
relevance of viridans and nonhemolytic streptococci 
isolated from blood and cerebrospinal fluid in a pediatric 
population. Am J Clin Pathol . 1990;93:270.
356. Harder EJ, Wilkowske CJ, Washington JA, et al. 
Streptococcus mutans  endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 
1974;80:364.
357. Facklam R. What happened to the streptococci: overview 
of taxonomic and nomenclature changes. Clin Microbiol 
Rev. 2002;15:613.358. Gomez-Garces JL, Gil Y , Burillo A, et al. Diseases 
associated with bloodstream infections caused by the new 
species included in the old Streptococcus bovis  group. 
Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin . 2012;30:175, [in Spanish].
359. Watanakunakorn C. Streptococcus bovis  endocarditis. Am 
J Med . 1974;56:256.
360. Moellering RC, Watson BK, Kunz LJ. Endocarditis due to 
group D streptococci: comparison of disease caused by 
Streptococcus bovis  with that produced by the enterococci. 
Am J Med . 1974;57:239.
361. Hoppes WL, Lerner PI. Nonenterococcal group D 
streptococcal endocarditis caused by Streptococcus bovis . 
Ann Intern Med . 1974;81:588.
362. Klein RS, Reuco RA, Catalano MT, et al. Association of 
Streptococcus bovis  with carcinoma of the colon. N Engl J 
Med . 1977;297:800.
363. Corredoira J, Alonso MP , Coira A, et al. Characteristics 
of Streptococcus bovis  endocarditis and its differences 
with Streptococcus viridans  endocarditis. Eur J Clin 
Microbiol Infect Dis . 2008;27:285.
364. Mandell GL, Kaye D, Levison ME, et al. Enterococcal 
endocarditis: an analysis of 38 patients observed at the 
New Y ork Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. Arch Intern 
Med . 1970;125:258.
365. Selton-Suty C, Célard M, Le Moing V , et al. Preeminence 
of Staphylococcus aureus  in infective endocarditis: a 
1-year population-based survey. Clin Infect Dis . 
2012;54:1230–1239.
366. Serra P , Brandimarte C, Martino P , et al. Synergistic 
treatment of enterococcal endocarditis. Arch Intern Med . 
1977;137:1562.
367. Mergran DW . Enterococcal endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 
1992;15:63.
368. Malone DA, Wagner RA, Myers JP , et al. Enterococcal 
bacteremia in two large community teaching hospitals. 
Am J Med . 1986;81:601.
369. Hoffmann SA, Moellering RC Jr. The enterococcus: 
“putting the bug in our ears. ” . Ann Intern Med . 
1987;106:757.
370. Maki DG, Agger W A. Enterococcal bacteremia: clinical 
features, the risk of endocarditis, and management. 
Medicine (Baltimore) . 1988;67:248.
371. Ugolini V , Pacifico A, Smitherman TC, et al. 
Pneumococcal endocarditis update: analysis of 10 cases 
diagnosed between 1974 and 1984. Am Heart J . 
1986;112:813.
372. Powderly WG, Stanley SL Jr, Medoff G. Pneumococcal 
endocarditis: report of a series and review of the 
literature. Rev Infect Dis . 1986;8:786.
373. Bruyn GAW , Thompson J, van der Meer JWM. 
Pneumococcal endocarditis in adult patients: a report of 
five cases and review of the literature. QJM . 1990;74:  
33.
374. Elward K, Hruby N, Christy C. Pneumococcal 
endocarditis in infants and children: report of a case and 
review of the literature. Pediatr Infect Dis J . 1990;9:  
652.
375. Lefort A, Mainardi JL, Selton-Suty C, et al. Streptococcus 
pneumoniae  endocarditis in adults: a multicenter study in 
France in the era of penicillin resistance (1991-1998). The 
Pneumococcal Endocarditis Study Group. Medicine 
(Baltinore) . 2000;79:327.
376. Gelfand MS, Threlkeld MG. Subacute bacterial 
endocarditis secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae . Am 
J Med . 1992;93:91.
377. Adrián T, Ambrosioni J, Llopis J, et al. Epidemiology, 
clinical features, and outcome of infective endocarditis 
due to Abiotrophia  species and Granulicatella  species: 
report of 76 cases, 2000–2015. Clin Infect Dis . 
2018;66:104–111.
378. Stein DS, Nelson KE. Endocarditis due to nutritionally 
deficient streptococci: therapeutic dilemma. Rev Infect 
Dis. 1987;9:908.
379. Catto BA, Jacobs MR, Shlaes DM. Streptococcus mitis:  a 
cause of serious infection in adults. Arch Intern Med . 
1987;147:885.
380. Rapeport KB, Giron JA, Rosner F . Streptococcus mitis  
endocarditis: report of 17 cases. Arch Intern Med . 
1986;146:2361.
381. Hager WD, Speck EL, Mathew PK, et al. Endocarditis 
with myocardial abscesses and pericarditis in an adult: 
group B streptococcus as a cause. Arch Intern Med . 
1977;137:1725.
382. Sambola A, Miro JM, Tornos MP , et al. Streptococcus 
agalactiae  infective endocarditis: analysis of 30 cases and 
review of the literature, 1962-1998. Clin Infect Dis . 
2002;34:1576.
383. Opal SM, Cross A, Palmer M, et al. Group B 
streptococcal sepsis in adults and infants: contrasts and 
comparisons. Arch Intern Med . 1988;148:641.
384. Gallagher PG, Watanakunakorn C. Group B streptococcal 
endocarditis: report of seven cases and review of the 
literature, 1962-1985. Rev Infect Dis . 1986;8:175.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1108.e6
Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes385. Scully BE, Spriggs D, Neu HC. Streptococcus agalactiae  
(group B) endocarditis: a description of twelve cases and 
review of the literature. Infection . 1987;15:169.
386. Wiseman A, Rene P , Crelinsten GL. Streptococcus 
agalactiae  endocarditis: an association with villous 
adenomas of the large intestine. Ann Intern Med . 
1985;103:893.
387. Vartrian CV , Septimus EJ. Tricuspid valve group B 
streptococcal endocarditis following elective abortion. 
Rev Infect Dis . 1991;13:997.
388. Baddour LM. Infective endocarditis caused by 
β-hemolytic streptococci. Clin Infect Dis . 1998;26:66.
389. Venezio FR, Gullberg RM, Westenfelder GO, et al. Group 
G streptococcal endocarditis and bacteremia. Am J Med . 
1986;81:29.
390. Smyth EG, Pallett AP , Davidson RN. Group G 
streptococcal endocarditis: two case reports, a review of 
the literature and recommendations for treatment. J 
Infect . 1988;16:169.
391. Ho AKC, Woo KS, Tse KK, et al. Infective endocarditis 
caused by Streptococcus suis  serotype 2. J Infect . 
1990;21:209.
392. Lacave G, Coutard A, Troche G, et al. Endocarditis 
caused by Streptococcus canis:  an emerging zoonosis? 
Infection . 2016;44:111–114.
393. Baddour LM. Infective endocarditis caused by 
beta-hemolytic streptococci. The Infectious Diseases 
Society of America’s Emerging Infections Network. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1998;26:66.
394. Murray HW , Gross KC, Masur H, et al. Serious infections 
caused by Streptococcus milleri . Am J Med . 1978;64:759.
395. Shlaes DM, Lerner PI, Wolinsky E, et al. Infections due to 
Lancefield group F and related streptococci (S. milleri, S. 
anginosus) . Medicine (Baltimore) . 1981;60:197.
396. Gossling J. Occurrence and pathogenicity of the 
Streptococcus milleri  group. Rev Infect Dis . 1988;10:257.
397. Hosea SW . Virulent Streptococcus viridans  bacterial 
endocarditis. Am Heart J . 1981;101:174.
398. Buu-Joi A, Sapoetra A, Branger C, et al. Antimicrobial 
susceptibility of Gemella haemolysans  isolated from 
patients with sub-acute endocarditis. Eur J Clin Microbiol . 
1982;1:102.
399. Frésard A, Michel VP , Rueda X, et al. Gemella 
haemolysans  endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 1993;16:586.
400. Sunnerhagen T, Nilson B, Olaison L, et al. Clinical and 
microbiological features of infective endocarditis caused 
by aerococci. Infection . 2016;44:167–173.
401. Senneby E, Goransson L, Weiber S, et al. A population-
based study of aerococcal bacteraemia in the 
MALDI-TOF MS-era. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 
2016;35:755–762.
402. Fowler VG Jr, Olsen MK, Corey GR, et al. Clinical 
identifiers of complicated Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Arch Intern Med . 2003;163:2066.
403. Chang FY , MacDonald BB, Peacock JE Jr, et al. A 
prospective multicenter study of Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia: incidence of endocarditis, risk factors for 
mortality, and clinical impact of methicillin resistance. 
Medicine (Baltimore) . 2003;82:322.
404. Watanakunakorn C, Tan JS, Phair JP . Some salient 
features of Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis. Am J Med . 
1973;54:473.
405. Musher DM, McKenzie SO. Infection due to 
Staphylococcus aureus . Medicine (Baltimore) . 1977;56:383.
406. Bayer AS. Staphylococcal bacteremia and endocarditis: 
state of the art. Arch Intern Med . 1982;142:1169.
407. Thompson RL. Staphylococcal infective endocarditis. 
Mayo Clin Proc . 1982;57:106.
408. Sanabria TJ, Alpert JS, Goldberg R, et al. Increasing 
frequency of staphylococcal infective endocarditis: 
experience at a university hospital, 1981 through 1988. 
Arch Intern Med . 1990;150:1305.
409. Ing MB, Baddour LM, Bayer AS. Bacteremia and 
infective endocarditis: pathogenesis, diagnosis and 
complications. In: Crossley KB, Archer GL, eds. The 
Staphylococci in Human Disease . New Y ork: Churchill 
Livingstone; 1997:331.
410. Fowler VG, Sanders LL, Kong L, et al. Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis: 59 prospectively identified cases with 
followup. Clin Infect Dis . 1999;28:106.
411. Julander I. Unfavourable prognostic factors in 
Staphylococcus aureus  septicemia and endocarditis. Scand 
J Infect Dis . 1985;17:179.
412. O’Callaghan C, McDougall P . Infective endocarditis in 
neonates. Arch Dis Child . 1988;63:53.
413. Crane LR, Levine DP , Zervos MJ, et al. Bacteremia in 
narcotic addicts at the Detroit Medical Center, I. 
Microbiology, epidemiology, risk factors, and empiric 
therapy. Rev Infect Dis . 1986;8:364.
414. Griffith DJ, Mackintosh CL, Inverarity D. Staphylococcus 
aureus  bacteraemia associated with injected new 
psychoactive substances. Epidemiol Infect . 
2016;144:1257–1266.415. Noel GJ, O’Loughlin JE, Edelson PJ. Neonatal 
Staphylococcus epidermidis  right-sided endocarditis: 
description of five catheterized infants. Pediatrics . 
1988;82:234.
416. Chu VH, Abrutyn E, Corey GR, et al. Native valve 
endocarditis due to coagulase-negative staphylococci: 
report of 99 episodes from the International 
Collaboration on Endocarditis–Merged Database. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2004;39:1527.
417. Chu VH, Woods CW , Miro JM, et al. Native valve 
endocarditis due to coagulase negative staphylococcus: 
clinical significance and predictors of mortality. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2008;46:232.
418. Monk AB, Boundy S, Chu VH, et al. Analysis of the 
genotype and virulence of Staphylococcus epidermidis  
isolates from patients with infective endocarditis. Infect 
Immun . 2008;76:5127.
419. Lang S, Livesley MA, Lambert PA, et al. Identification of 
a novel antigen from Staphylococcus epidermidis . FEMS 
Immun Med Microbiol . 2000;29:213.
420. Etienne J, Brun Y , El Solh N, et al. Characterization of 
clinically significant isolates of Staphylococcus epidermidis  
from patients with endocarditis. J Clin Microbiol . 
1988;26:613.
421. Baddour LM, Simpson W A, Weems JJ Jr, et al. Phenotypic 
selection of small-colony variant forms of Staphylococcus 
epidermidis  in a rat model of endocarditis. J Infect Dis . 
1988;157:757.
422. Van Eldere J, Peetermans WE, Struelens M, et al. 
Polyclonal staphylococcal endocarditis caused by genetic 
variability. Clin Infect Dis . 2000;31:24.
423. Singh VR, Radd I. Fatal Staphylococcus saprophyticus  
native valve endocarditis in an intravenous drug addict. J 
Infect Dis . 1990;162:783.
424. Lina B, Celard M, Vandenesch F , et al. Infective 
endocarditis due to Staphylococcus capitis . Clin Infect Dis . 
1992;15:173.
425. DeHondt G, Leven M, Vandermersch C, et al. Destructive 
endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus lugdunensis:  case 
report and review of the literature. Acta Clin Belg . 
1997;52:27.
426. Vandenesch F , Etienne J, Reverdy ME, et al. Endocarditis 
due to Staphylococcus lugdunensis : report of 11 cases and 
review. Clin Infect Dis . 1993;17:871.
427. Celard M, Lelievre H, Obadia JF , et al. Long-standing 
bacteremia and endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus 
lugdunensis  in a patient with an implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator. Clin Microbiol Infect . 1997;3:387.
428. Lessing MPA, Crook DWM, Bowler ICJ, et al. Native 
valve endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus lugdunensis . 
QJM . 1996;89:855.
429. Etienne J, Brun Y , Fleurette J. Staphylococcus lugdunensis  
endocarditis. J Clin Pathol . 1989;42:892.
430. Morpeth S, Murdoch D, Cabell CH, et al. Non-HACEK 
gram-negative bacillus endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 
2007;147:829.
431. Mills J, Drew D. Serratia marcescens  endocarditis. Ann 
Intern Med . 1976;85:397.
432. Cooper R, Mills J. Serratia  endocarditis: a follow-up 
report. Arch Intern Med . 1980;140:199.
433. Reyes MP , Brown WJ, Lerner AM. Treatment of patients 
with Pseudomonas  endocarditis with high dose 
aminoglycoside and carbenicillin therapy. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1978;57:57.
434. Reyes MP , Lerner AM. Current problems in the treatment 
of infective endocarditis due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa . 
Rev Infect Dis . 1983;5:314.
435. Wieland M, Lederman MM, Kline-King C, et al. 
Left-sided endocarditis due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa:  a 
report of 10 cases and review of the literature. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1986;65:180.
436. Komshian SV , Tablan OC, Palutke W , et al. 
Characteristics of left-sided endocarditis due to 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa  in the Detroit Medical Center. 
Rev Infect Dis . 1990;12:693.
437. Reyes MP , Ali A, Mendes RE, et al. Resurgence of 
Pseudomonas  endocarditis in Detroit, 2006-2008. 
Medicine (Baltimore) . 2009;88:294.
438. Snyder N, Atterbury CE, Correia JP , et al. Increased 
occurrence of cirrhosis and bacterial endocarditis. 
Gastroenterology . 1977;73:1107.
439. Carruthers M. Endocarditis due to enteric bacilli other 
than salmonellae: case reports and literature review. Am J 
Med Sci . 1977;273:203.
440. Sande MA, Johnson WD, Hook EW , et al. Sustained 
bacteremia in patients with prosthetic cardiac valves. N 
Engl J Med . 1972;286:1067.
441. Schneider PJ, Nernoff J, Gold JA. Acute Salmonella  
endocarditis: report of a case and review. Arch Intern 
Med . 1967;120:478.
442. Caramelli B, Mansur AJ, Grinberg M, et al. 
Campylobacter fetus  endocarditis on a prosthetic heart 
valve. South Med J . 1988;81:802.443. Noureddine M, de la Torre J, Ivanova R, et al; Grupo para 
el Estudio de las Infecciones Cardiovasculares de la 
Sociedad Andaluza de Enfermedades Infecciosas (SAEI). 
Left-sided endocarditis due to gram-negative bacilli: 
epidemiology and clinical characteristics. Enferm Infecc 
Microbiol Clin . 2011;29:276, [in Spanish].
444. Noriega ER, Rubinstein E, Simberkoff M, et al. Subacute 
and acute endocarditis due to Pseudomonas cepacia  in 
heroin addicts. Am J Med . 1975;59:29.
445. Reyes MP , Palutke W A, Wylin RF , et al. Pseudomonas  
endocarditis in the Detroit Medical Center 1969-1972. 
Medicine (Baltimore) . 1973;52:173.
446. Chunn CJ, Jones SR, McCutchan JA, et al. Haemophilus 
parainfluenzae  infective endocarditis. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1977;56:99.
447. Lynn DJ, Kane JG, Parker RH. Haemophilus 
parainfluenzae  and influenzae endocarditis: a review of 
forty cases. Medicine (Baltimore) . 1977;56:115.
448. Geraci JE, Wilkowske CJ, Wilson WR, et al. Haemophilus  
endocarditis: report of 14 cases. Mayo Clin Proc . 
1977;52:209.
449. Parker SW , Apicella MA, Fuller CM. Haemophilus  
endocarditis: two patients with complications. Arch Intern 
Med . 1983;143:48.
450. Bangsborg JM, Tuede M, Skinhoj P . Haemophilus seguis  
endocarditis. J Infect . 1988;16:81.
451. Porath A, Wanderman K, Simu A, et al. Endocarditis 
caused by Haemophilus aegyptius . Am J Med Sci . 
1986;292:110.
452. Vandepitte J, DeGeest H, Jousten P . Subacute bacterial 
endocarditis due to Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans:  
report of a case with a review of the literature. J Clin 
Pathol . 1977;30:842.
453. Ah Fat LN, Patel BR, Pickens S. Actinobacillus 
actinomycetemcomitans  endocarditis in hypertrophic 
obstructive cardiomyopathy. J Infect Dis . 1983;6:81.
454. Lane T, MacGregor RR, Wright D, et al. Cardiobacterium 
hominis:  an elusive cause of endocarditis. J Infect . 
1983;6:75.
455. Jenny DB, Letendre PW , Iverson G. Endocarditis due to 
Kingella  species. Rev Infect Dis . 1988;10:1065.
456. Decker MD, Graham BS, Hunter EB, et al. Endocarditis 
and infections of intravascular devices due to Eikenella 
corrodens . Am J Med Sci . 1986;292:209.
457. Patrick WD, Brown WD, Bowmer MI, et al. Infective 
endocarditis due to Eikenella corrodens:  case report and 
review of the literature. Can J Infect Dis . 1990;1:139.
458. Ellner JJ, Rosenthal MS, Lerner PI, et al. Infective 
endocarditis caused by slow-growing, fastidious, 
gram-negative bacteria. Medicine (Baltimore) . 
1979;58:145.
459. Jurica JV , Bomzer CA, England ACIII. Gonococcal 
endocarditis: a case report and review of the literature. 
Sex Transm Dis . 1987;14:231.
460. Wall TC, Peyton RB, Corey GR. Gonococcal endocarditis: 
a new look at an old disease. Medicine (Baltimore) . 
1989;68:375.
461. Jackman JD Jr, Glamann DB. Gonococcal endocarditis: 
twenty-five year experience. Am J Med Sci . 1991;301:  
221.
462. Wong JD, Janda JM. Association of an important 
Neisseria  species, Neisseria elongata  subsp. nitroreducens , 
with bacteremia, endocarditis, and osteomyelitis. J Clin 
Microbiol . 1992;30:719.
463. Ingram RJH, Cornere B, Ellis-Pegler RB. Endocarditis 
due to Neisseria mucosa:  two case reports and review. 
Clin Infect Dis . 1992;15:321.
464. Heiddal S, Sverrisson JT, Yngvason FE, et al. Native-valve 
endocarditis due to Neisseria sicca:  case report and 
review. Clin Infect Dis . 1993;16:667.
465. Gerry JL, Greenough WB. Diphtheroid endocarditis: 
report of nine cases and review of the literature. Johns 
Hopkins Med J . 1976;139:61.
466. Morris A, Guild I. Endocarditis due to Corynebacterium 
pseudodiphthericum:  five case reports, review, and 
antibiotic susceptibilities of nine strains. Rev Infect Dis . 
1991;13:887.
467. Tiley SM, Kociuba KR, Heron LG, et al. Infective 
endocarditis due to nontoxigenic Corynebacterium 
diphtheriae:  report of seven cases and review. Clin Infect 
Dis. 1993;16:271.
468. Bayer AS, Chow AW , Guze LB. Listeria monocytogenes  
endocarditis: report of a case and review of the literature. 
Am J Med Sci . 1977;273:319.
469. Carvajal A, Frederiksen W . Fatal endocarditis due to 
Listeria monocytogenes . Rev Infect Dis . 1988;10:616.
470. Sohail MR, Gray AL, Baddour LM, et al. Infective 
endocarditis due to Propionibacterium  species. Clin 
Microbiol Infect . 2009;15:387–394.
471. Sussman JI, Baron EJ, Goldberg SM, et al. Clinical 
manifestations and therapy of Lactobacillus  endocarditis: 
report of a case and review of the literature. Rev Infect 
Dis. 1986;8:771.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intravascular Infections 
1108.e7
472. Griffiths JK, Daly JS, Dodge RA. Two cases of 
endocarditis due to Lactobacillus  species: antimicrobial 
susceptibility, review, and discussion of therapy. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1992;15:250.
473. Gorby GL, Peacock JE Jr. Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae  
endocarditis: microbiologic, epidemiologic, and clinical 
features of an occupational disease. Rev Infect Dis . 
1988;10:317.
474. Wright WF . Central venous access device-related bacillus 
cereus endocarditis: a case report and review of the 
literature. Clin Med Res . 2016;14:109–115.
475. Fridman D, Chaudhry A, Makaryus J, et al. Rothia 
dentocariosa  endocarditis: an especially rare case in a 
previously healthy man. Tex Heart Inst J . 
2016;43:255–257.
476. Felner JM, Dowell UR. Anaerobic bacterial endocarditis. 
N Engl J Med . 1970;283:1188.
477. Nastro LJ, Finegold SM. Endocarditis due to anaerobic 
gram-negative bacilli. Am J Med . 1973;54:482.
478. Nastro FL, Sarma RJ. Infective endocarditis due to 
anaerobic and microaerophilic bacteria. West J Med . 
1982;137:18.
479. Jackson RT, Dopp AC. Bacteroides fragilis  endocarditis. 
South Med J . 1988;81:781.
480. Marrie T, Raoult D. Q fever. Clin Infect Dis . 1995;20:489.
481. Applefield MM, Billingsley LJ, Tucker HJ, et al. Q fever 
endocarditis: a case occurring in the United States. Am 
Heart J . 1977;93:669.
482. Raoult D, Tissot-Dupont H, Foucault C, et al. Q fever 
1985-1998: clinical and epidemiologic features of 1,383 
infections. Medicine (Baltimore) . 2000;79:109.
483. Maurin M, Raoult D. Q fever. Clin Microbiol Rev . 
1999;12:518.
484. Tobin MJ, Cahill N, Gearty G, et al. Q fever endocarditis. 
Am J Med . 1982;72:396.
485. Peter O, Flepp M, Bestetti G, et al. Q fever endocarditis: 
diagnostic approaches and monitoring of therapeutic 
effects. Clin Invest . 1992;70:932.
486. Fernandez-Guerrero ML, Muelas JM, Aquado JM. Q 
fever endocarditis on porcine bioprosthetic valves. Ann 
Intern Med . 1988;108:209.
487. Jones RB, Priest JB, Kuo C-C. Subacute chlamydial 
endocarditis. JAMA . 1982;247:655.
488. Brearley BF , Hutchinson DN. Endocarditis associated 
with Chlamydia trachomatis  infection. Br Heart J . 
1981;46:220.
489. Marrie TJ, Harczy M, Mann OE, et al. Culture-negative 
endocarditis probably due to Chlamydia pneumoniae . J 
Infect Dis . 1990;161:127.
490. Popat K, Barnardo D, Webb-Peploe M. Mycoplasma 
pneumoniae  endocarditis. Br Heart J . 1980;44:111.
491. Raoult D, Birg ML, La Scola B, et al. Cultivation of the 
bacillus of Whipple’s disease [erratum appears in N Engl J 
Med. 2000 May 18;342(20):1538]. N Engl J Med . 
2000;342:620.
492. Geissdorfer W , Moos V , Moter A, et al. High frequency of 
Tropheryma whipplei  in culture-negative endocarditis. J 
Clin Microbiol . 2012;50:216–222.
493. Houpikian P , Raoult D. Blood culture-negative 
endocarditis in a reference center: etiologic diagnosis of 
348 cases. Medicine (Baltimore) . 2005;84:162.
494. Al-Kasab S, Fagih MR, Al-Y ousef S, et al. Brucella  
infective endocarditis: successful combined medical and 
surgical therapy. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg . 1988;95:862.
495. Jacobs F , Abramowicz D, Vereerstrater P , et al. Brucella  
endocarditis: the role of combined medical and surgical 
treatment. Rev Infect Dis . 1990;12:740.
496. McIntosh CS, Nickers PJ, Isaacs AJ. Spirillum  
endocarditis. Postgrad Med J . 1975;51:645.
497. Gradon JD, Chapnick EK, Lutwick LI. Infective 
endocarditis of a native valve due to Acinetobacter:  case 
report and review. Clin Infect Dis . 1992;14:1145.
498. Lam S, Samraj J, Rahman S, et al. Primary actinomycotic 
endocarditis: case report and review. Clin Infect Dis . 
1993;16:481.
499. Ascher DP , Zbick C, White C, et al. Infections due to 
Stomatococcus mucilaginosus:  10 cases and review. Rev 
Infect Dis . 1991;13:1048.
500. Rupp ME. Streptobacillus moniliformis  endocarditis: case 
report and review. Clin Infect Dis . 1992;14:769.
501. Baddley JW , Benjamin DK Jr, Patel M, et al. Candida  
infective endocarditis. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 
2008;27:519.
502. Rubenstein E, Noriega ER, Simberkoff MS, et al. Tissue 
penetration of amphotericin B in Candida  endocarditis. 
Chest . 1974;66:376.
503. Moyer D, Edwards JE. Fungal endocarditis. In: Kaye D, 
ed. Infective Endocarditis . New Y ork: Raven Press; 
1992:299.
504. Mora-Duarte J, Betts R, Rotstein C, et al; Caspofungin 
Invasive Candidiasis Study Group. Comparison of 
caspofungin and amphotericin B for invasive candidiasis. 
N Engl J Med . 2002;347:2020.505. Herbrecht R, Denning DW , Patterson TF , et al; Invasive 
Fungal Infections Group of the European Organisation 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer and the Global 
Aspergillus  Study Group. Voriconazole versus 
amphotericin B for primary therapy of invasive 
aspergillosis. N Engl J Med . 2002;347:408.
506. Carrizosa J, Levison ME, Lawrence T, et al. Cure of 
Aspergillus ustus  endocarditis of prosthetic valve. Arch 
Intern Med . 1974;133:486.
507. Chemaly RF , Tomford JW , Hall GS, et al. Rapid diagnosis 
of Histoplasma capsulatum  endocarditis using the 
AccuProbe on an excised valve. J Clin Microbiol . 
2001;39:2640.
508. Keay S, Denning DW , Stevens DA. Endocarditis due to 
Trichosporon beigelii:  in vitro susceptibility of isolates and 
review. Rev Infect Dis . 1991;13:383.
509. Welty FK, McLeod GX, Ezratty C, et al. Pseudallescheria 
boydii  endocarditis of the pulmonic valve in a liver 
transplant recipient. Clin Infect Dis . 1992;15:858.
510. Tascini C, Cardinali G, Barletta V , et al. First case of 
Trichoderma longibrachiatum  CIED (Cardiac Implantable 
Electronic device)-associated endocarditis in a 
non-immunocompromised host: biofilm removal and 
diagnostic problems in the light of the current literature. 
[Review] Mycopathologia . 2016;181:297–303.
511. Burch GE, Tsui CY . Evolution of coxsackie viral valvular 
and mural endocarditis in mice. Br J Exp Pathol . 
1971;52:360.
512. Persand V . Two unusual cases of mural endocarditis with 
a review of the literature. Am J Clin Pathol . 1970;53:  
832.
513. Stear TJ, Shersher D, Kim GJ, et al. Valvular 
cytomegalovirus endocarditis. Ann Thorac Surg . 
2016;102:e105–e107.
514. Van Scoy RE. Culture-negative endocarditis. Mayo Clin 
Proc . 1982;57:149.
515. Pesanti EL, Smith IM. Infective endocarditis with 
negative blood cultures: an analysis of 52 cases. Am J 
Med . 1979;66:43.
516. Hoen B, Selton-Suty C, Lacassin F , et al. Infective 
endocarditis in patients with negative blood cultures: 
analysis of 88 cases from a one-year nationwide survey in 
France. Clin Infect Dis . 1995;20:501.
517. Tunkel BR, Kaye D. Endocarditis with negative blood 
cultures. N Engl J Med . 1992;326:1215.
518. Baddour LM, Meyer J, Henry B. Polymicrobial infective 
endocarditis in the 1980s. Rev Infect Dis . 1991;13:963.
519. Szabo S, Lieberman JP , Lue YA. Unusual pathogens in 
narcotic-associated endocarditis. Rev Infect Dis . 
1990;12:412.
520. Komshian SV , Tablan OC, Palutke W , et al. 
Characteristics of left sided endocarditis due to 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa  in the Detroit Medical Center. 
Rev Infect Dis . 1990;12:693.
521. Tuazon CW , Hill R, Sheagren JW . Microbiologic study of 
street heroin and injection paraphernalia. J Infect Dis . 
1974;129:327.
522. Tuazon CW , Sheagren JW . Increased rate of carriage of 
Staphylococcus aureus  among narcotic addicts. J Infect 
Dis. 1974;129:725.
523. Reisberg BE. Infective endocarditis in the narcotic addict. 
Prog Cardiovasc Dis . 1979;22:193.
524. Baddour LM. Twelve-year review of recurrent 
native-valve infective endocarditis: a disease of the 
modern antibiotic era. Rev Infect Dis . 1988;10:1163.
525. Daschner FD, Frank V . Antimicrobial drugs in human 
cardiac valves and endocarditis lesions. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 1988;12:776.
526. Cremieux A-C, Carbon C. Pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic requirements for antibiotic therapy of 
experimental endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1992;36:2069.
527. Gilbert DN, Wood CA, Kimbrough RC, et al. Failure of 
treatment with teicoplanin at 6 milligrams/kg/day in 
patients with Staphylococcus aureus  intravascular 
infections. Chemotherapy . 1991;115:674.
528. Dall L, Barnes WG, Lane JW , et al. Enzymatic 
modification of glycocalyx in the treatment of 
experimental endocarditis due to viridans streptococci. J 
Infect Dis . 1987;156:736.
529. Buiting AGM, Thompson J, Emeis JJ, et al. Effects of 
tissue-type plasminogen activator on Staphylococcus 
epidermidis– infected plasma clots as a model of infected 
endocardial vegetations. J Antimicrob Chemother . 
1987;19:771.
530. Buiting AG, Thompson J, Emeis JJ, et al. Effects of 
tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) on Streptococcus 
sanguis– infected endocardial vegetations in vitro. J 
Antimicrob Chemother . 1988;21:609.
531. Nicolau DP , Marangos MN, Nightingale CH, et al. 
Influence of aspirin on development and treatment of 
experimental Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1995;39:1748.532. Kupferwasser LI, Y eaman MR, Shapiro SM, et al 
Beneficial effects of aspirin in experimental 
Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis: microbiologic, 
echocardiographic and histopathologic analyses. 
Presented at the Ninety-eighth General Meeting of the 
American Society for Microbiology, Atlanta, May 17-21, 
1998.
533. Taha TH, Durrant SS, Mazeika PK, et al. Aspirin to 
prevent growth of vegetations and cerebral emboli in 
infective endocarditis. J Intern Med . 1992;231:543.
534. Cates JE, Christie RV . Subacute bacterial endocarditis. 
QJM . 1951;20:93.
535. Carrizosa J, Kobasa WD, Kaye D. Antagonism between 
chloramphenicol and penicillin in streptococcal 
endocarditis in rabbits. J Lab Clin Med . 1975;85:307.
536. Wilson WR, Gilbert DN, Bisno AL, et al. Evaluation of 
new anti-infective drugs for the treatment of infective 
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 1992;15(suppl 1):S89.
537. Andrews MM, von Reyn CF . Patient selection criteria and 
management guidelines for outpatient parenteral 
antibiotic therapy for native valve infective endocarditis. 
Clin Infect Dis . 2001;33:203.
538. Tornos P , Almirante B, Mirabet S, et al. Infective 
endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus:  deleterious 
effect of anticoagulant therapy. Arch Intern Med . 
1999;159:473.
539. Douglas A, Moore-Gillon J, Eykyn S. Fever during 
treatment of infective endocarditis. Lancet . 1986;1:1341.
540. Lalani T, Cabell CH, Benjamin DK, et al; International 
Collaboration on Endocarditis–Prospective Cohort Study. 
Analysis of the impact of early surgery on in-hospital 
mortality of native valve endocarditis: use of propensity 
score and instrumental variable methods to adjust for 
treatment-selection bias. Circulation . 
2010;121:1005–1013.
541. Kang DH, Kim YJ, Kim SH, et al. Early surgery versus 
conventional treatment for infective endocarditis. N Engl 
J Med . 2012;366:2466.
542. Sande MA, Scheld WM. Combination antibiotic therapy 
of bacterial endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 1980;92:  
390.
543. Le T, Bayer AS. Combination antibiotic therapy for 
infective endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2003;36:615.
544. Chow SK, Jain R, Black D, et al. The devil is in the 
details: impact of penicillin susceptibility reporting on 
the treatment of streptococcal infective endocarditis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2016;62:264–265.
545. Meylan PR, Francioli P , Glauser MP . Discrepancies 
between MBC and actual killing by viridans group 
streptococci by cell-wall-active antibiotics. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 1986;29:418.
546. Holloway Y , Pankert J, Hess J. Penicillin tolerance and 
bacterial endocarditis. Lancet . 1980;1:589.
547. Pulliam L, Inokuchi S, Hadley WK, et al. Penicillin 
tolerance in experimental streptococcal endocarditis. 
Lancet . 1979;2:957.
548. Gephart JF , Washington JAII. Antimicrobial 
susceptibilities of nutritionally variant streptococci. J 
Infect Dis . 1982;146:536.
549. Holloway Y , Dankert J. Penicillin tolerance in 
nutritionally variant streptococci. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1982;22:1073.
550. Lowry FD, Neuhas EG, Chang DS, et al. Penicillin 
therapy of experimental endocarditis caused by tolerant 
Streptococcus sanguis  and nontolerant Streptococcus mitis . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1983;23:67.
551. Brennan RO, Durack DT. Therapeutic significance of 
penicillin tolerance in experimental streptococcal 
endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1983;23:  
273.
552. Baker CW , Thornsberry C. Antimicrobial susceptibility of 
Streptococcus mutans  isolated from patients with 
endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1974;5:268.
553. Thornsberry C, Baker CN, Facklam RR. Antibiotic 
susceptibility of Streptococcus bovis  and other group D 
streptococci causing endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1974;5:228.
554. Wolfe JC, Johnson WD. Penicillin-sensitive streptococcal 
endocarditis: in vitro and clinical observations on 
penicillin-streptomycin therapy. Ann Intern Med . 
1974;81:178.
555. Watanakunakorn C, Glotzbecker C. Synergism with 
aminoglycosides of penicillin, ampicillin, and vancomycin 
against nonenterococcal group D streptococci and 
viridans streptococci. J Med Microbiol . 1977;10:133.
556. Enzler MJ, Rouse MS, Henry NK, et al. In vitro and in 
vivo studies of streptomycin-resistant, penicillin-
susceptible streptococci from patients with infective 
endocarditis. J Infect Dis . 1987;155:954.
557. Farber BF , Y ee Y . High-level aminoglycoside resistance 
mediated by aminoglycoside-modifying enzymes among 
viridans streptococci: implications for the therapy of 
endocarditis. J Infect Dis . 1987;155:948.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1108.e8
Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes558. Sande MA, Irvin RG. Penicillin-aminoglycoside synergy 
in experimental Streptococcus viridans  endocarditis. J 
Infect Dis . 1974;129:572.
559. Durack DT, Pelletier LL, Petersdorf RG. Chemotherapy of 
experimental streptococcal endocarditis, II. Synergism 
between penicillin and streptomycin against penicillin-
sensitive streptococci. J Clin Invest . 1974;53:929.
560. Drake TA, Sande MA. Studies of the chemotherapy of 
endocarditis: correlation of in vitro, animal model, and 
clinical studies. Rev Infect Dis . 1983;5(suppl):S345.
561. Wilson WR, Geraci JE. Treatment of streptococcal 
infective endocarditis. Am J Med . 1985;78(suppl 
6B):S128–S137.
562. Scheld WM. Therapy of streptococcal endocarditis: 
correlation of animal model and clinical studies. J 
Antimicrob Chemother . 1987;20(supplA):S71–S85.
563. Baquero F , Loza E. Penicillin resistance in Spain. Infect 
Dis Clin Pract . 1992;1:147.
564. Wilson WR, Geraci JE, Wilkowske CJ, et al. Short-term 
intramuscular therapy with procaine penicillin plus 
streptomycin for infective endocarditis due to viridans 
streptococci. Circulation . 1978;57:1158.
565. Wilson WR, Thompson RL, Wilkowske CJ, et al. 
Short-term therapy for streptococcal infective 
endocarditis: combined intramuscular administration of 
penicillin and streptomycin. JAMA . 1981;245:360.
566. Karchmer AW , Mollering RC Jr, Maki DG, et al. Single 
antibiotic therapy for streptococcal endocarditis. JAMA . 
1979;241:1801.
567. Malacoff RF , Frank E, Andriole VT. Streptococcal 
endocarditis (nonenterococcal, non-group A): single vs. 
combination therapy. JAMA . 1979;241:1807.
568. Francioli P , Ruch W , Stamboulian D. Treatment of 
streptococcal endocarditis with a single daily dose of 
ceftriaxone and netilmicin for 14 days. Clin Infect Dis . 
1995;21:1406.
569. Sexton DJ, Tenenbaum MJ, Wilson WR, et al. Ceftriaxone 
once daily for 4 weeks compared to ceftriaxone plus 
gentamicin once daily for 2 weeks for treatment of 
penicillin-susceptible streptococcal endocarditis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1998;27:1470.
570. Parillo JE, Borst GC, Mazur MH, et al. Endocarditis due 
to resistant viridans streptococci during oral penicillin 
chemoprophylaxis. N Engl J Med . 1979;300:296.
571. Nicolau DP , Freeman CD, Belliveau PP , et al. Experience 
with once-daily aminoglycoside program administered to 
2,184 adult patients. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1995;39:650.
572. Bouvet A, Cremieux AC, Contrepois A, et al. 
Comparison of penicillin and vancomycin, individually 
and in combination with gentamicin and amikacin, in the 
treatment of experimental endocarditis induced by 
nutritionally variant streptococci. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1985;28:607.
573. Henry NK, Wilson WR, Roberts RB, et al. Antimicrobial 
therapy of experimental endocarditis caused by 
nutritionally variant viridans group streptococci. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1986;30:465.
574. Stein DS, Nelson KE. Endocarditis due to nutritionally 
deficient streptococci: therapeutic dilemma. Rev Infect 
Dis. 1987;9:908.
575. Cremieux A-C, Saleh-Mghir A, Vallois J-M, et al. Efficacy 
of temafloxacin in experimental Streptococcus adiacens  
endocarditis and autoradiographic diffusion pattern of 
[14C]temafloxacin in cardiac vegetations. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 1992;36:2216.
576. Stramboulian D, Bonvehi P , Arevalo C, et al. Antibiotic 
management of outpatients with endocarditis due to 
penicillin-susceptible streptococci. Rev Infect Dis . 
1991;13(suppl 2):S160.
577. Francioli P , Etienne J, Hoigué R, et al. Treatment of 
streptococcal endocarditis with a single daily dose of 
ceftriaxone sodium for 4 weeks: efficacy and outpatient 
treatment feasibility. JAMA . 1992;267:264.
578. Francioli PB, Glauser MP . Synergistic activity of 
ceftriaxone combined with netilmicin administered once 
daily for treatment of experimental streptococcal 
endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1993;37:207.
579. Hall RG 2nd, Payne KD, Bain AM, et al. Multicenter 
evaluation of vancomycin dosing: emphasis on obesity. 
Am J Med . 2008;121:515.
580. Y enditti M, Gelfusa V , Serra P , et al. 4-Week treatment of 
streptococcal native valve endocarditis with high-dose 
teicoplanin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1992;36:723.
581. Watanakunakorn C. Penicillin combined with gentamicin 
or streptomycin: synergism against enterococci. J Infect 
Dis. 1971;124:581.
582. Moellering RC Jr, Korzeniowski OM, Sande MA, et al. 
Species-specific resistance to antimicrobial synergism in 
Streptococcus faecium  and Streptococcus faecalis . J Infect 
Dis. 1979;140:203.
583. Krogstad DJ, Parquette AR. Defective killing of 
enterococci: a common property of antimicrobial agents acting on the cell wall. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1980;17:965.
584. Storch GA, Krogstad DA, Parquette AR. Antibiotic-
induced lysis of enterococci. J Clin Invest . 1981;68:639.
585. Megran DW . Enterococcal endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 
1992;15:63.
586. Murray BE, Church DA, Wanger A, et al. Comparison of 
two β-lactamase-producing strains of Streptococcus 
faecalis . Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1986;30:861.
587. Ingerman M, Pitsakis PG, Rosenberg A, et al. 
β-Lactamase production in experimental endocarditis 
due to aminoglycoside-resistant Streptococcus faecalis . J 
Infect Dis . 1987;155:1226.
588. Coudron PE, Markowitz SM, Wong ES. Isolation of a 
β-lactamase-producing, highly-gentamicin-resistant 
isolate of Enterococcus faecalis . Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1992;36:1225.
589. Lavoie SR, Wong ES, Coudron PE, et al. Comparison of 
ampicillin-sulbactam with vancomycin for treatment of 
experimental endocarditis due to a β-lactamase–
producing, highly-gentamicin-resistant isolate of 
Enterococcus faecalis . Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1993;37:1447.
590. Thal LA, Vazquez J, Perri MB, et al. Activity of ampicillin 
plus sulbactam against β-lactamase-producing 
enterococci in experimental endocarditis. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 1993;31:182.
591. Y ao JDC, Thauvin-Eliopoulos C, Eliopoulos GM, et al. 
Efficacy of teicoplanin in two dosage regimens for 
experimental endocarditis caused by a β-lactamase-
producing strain of Enterococcus faecalis  with high level 
resistance to gentamicin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1990;34:827.
592. Ramos MC, Grayson ML, Eliopoulos GM, et al. 
Comparison of daptomycin, vancomycin, and 
ampicillin-gentamicin for treatment of experimental 
endocarditis caused by penicillin-resistant enterococci. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1992;36:1864.
593. Fontana R, Grossato A, Ligozzi M, et al. In vitro response 
to bactericidal activity of cell wall-active antibiotics does 
not support the general opinion that enterococci are 
naturally tolerant to these antibiotics. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1990;34:1518.
594. Henry NK, Wilson WR, Geraci JE. Treatment of 
streptomycin-susceptible enterococcal experimental 
endocarditis with combinations of penicillin and low- or 
high-dose streptomycin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1986;30:725.
595. Harwick HJ, Kalmanson GM, Guze LB. In vitro activity 
of ampicillin or vancomycin combined with gentamicin 
or streptomycin against enterococci. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1973;4:383.
596. Weinstein AJ, Moellering RC. Penicillin and gentamicin 
therapy for enterococcal infections. JAMA . 
1973;223:1030.
597. Moellering RC, Wennersten C, Weinberg AW . Synergy of 
penicillin and gentamicin against enterococci. J Infect Dis . 
1971;124(suppl):S207.
598. Hook EW III, Roberts RB, Sande MA. Antimicrobial 
therapy of experimental enterococcal endocarditis. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1975;8:564.
599. Wright AJ, Wilson WR, Matsumoto JY , et al. Influence of 
gentamicin dose size on the efficacies of combinations of 
gentamicin and penicillin in experimental streptomycin-
resistant enterococcal endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1982;22:972.
600. Murray BE, Tsao J, Panida J. Enterococci from Bangkok, 
Thailand, with high-level resistance to currently available 
aminoglycosides. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1983;23:799.
601. Mederski-Samoraj BD, Murray BE. High-level resistance 
to gentamicin in clinical isolates of enterococci. J Infect 
Dis. 1983;147:751.
602. Zervos MJ, Dembinski S, Mikesell T, et al. High-level 
resistance to gentamicin in Streptococcus faecalis:  risk 
factors and evidence for exogenous acquisition of 
infection. J Infect Dis . 1986;153:1075.
603. Patterson JE, Zervos MJ. High-level gentamicin resistance 
in Enterococcus:  microbiology, genetic basis, and 
epidemiology. Rev Infect Dis . 1990;12:644.
604. Zervos MJ, Terpenning MS, Schaberg DR, et al. 
High-level aminoglycoside-resistant enterococci. Arch 
Intern Med . 1987;147:1591.
605. Eliopoulos GM, Wennersten C, Zighelboim-Daum S, 
et al. High-level resistance to gentamicin in clinical 
isolates of Streptococcus (Enterococcus) faecium . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1988;32:1528.
606. Coleman DL, Horwitz RI, Andriole VT. Association 
between serum inhibitory and bactericidal concentrations 
and therapeutic outcome in bacterial endocarditis. Am J 
Med . 1982;73:260.
607. Eliopoulos GM, Thauvin-Eliopoulos C, Moellering RC Jr. 
Contribution of animal models in the search for effective therapy for endocarditis due to enterococci with 
high-level resistance to gentamicin. Clin Infect Dis . 
1992;15:58.
608. Fernandez-Guerrero ML, Barros C, Rodriquez Tudela JL, 
et al. Aortic endocarditis caused by gentamicin-resistant 
Enterococcus faecalis . Eur J Clin Microbiol . 1988;7:  
525.
609. Mainardi JL, Gutmann L, Acar JF , et al. Synergistic effect 
of amoxicillin and cefotaxime against Enterococcus 
faecalis  [erratum appears in Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1995 Dec;39:2835]. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1995;39:1984.
610. Gavalda J, Len O, Miro JM, et al. Treatment of 
Enterococcus faecalis  endocarditis with ampicillin plus 
ceftriaxone. Ann Intern Med . 2007;146:574.
611. Fernández-Hidalgo N, Almirante B, Gavaldà J, et al. 
Ampicillin plus ceftriaxone is as effective as ampicillin 
plus gentamicin for treating Enterococcus faecalis  infective 
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2013;56:1261.
612. Hellinger WC, Rouse MS, Robadan PM, et al. 
Continuous intravenous versus intermittent ampicillin 
therapy of experimental endocarditis caused by 
aminoglycoside-resistant enterococci. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1992;36:1272.
613. Fantin B, Carbon C. Importance of the aminoglycoside 
dosing regimen in the penicillin-netilmicin combination 
for treatment of Enterococcus faecalis –induced 
experimental endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1990;34:2387.
614. Grayson ML, Thauvin-Eliopoulos C, Eliopoulos GM, 
et al. Failure of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy 
in experimental enterococcal endocarditis. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 1990;34:1792.
615. Watanakunakorn C, Bakie C. Synergism of vancomycin-
gentamicin and vancomycin-streptomycin against 
enterococci. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1973;4:120.
616. Watanakunakorn C, Tisone JC. Effects of a vancomycin-
rifampin combination on enterococci. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1982;22:915.
617. Frieden TR, Munsiff SS, Low DE, et al. Emergence of 
vancomycin-resistant enterococci in New Y ork City. 
Lancet . 1993;342:76.
618. Courvalin P . Resistance of enterococci to glycopeptides. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1990;34:2291.
619. Murray BE. Vancomycin-resistant enterococcal infections. 
N Engl J Med . 2000;342:710.
620. Murray BE. The life and times of the Enterococcus . Clin 
Microbiol Rev . 1990;3:46.
621. Babcock HM, Ritchie DJ, Christiansen E, et al. Successful 
treatment of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus  
endocarditis with oral linezolid. Clin Infect Dis . 
2001;32:1373.
622. Safdar A, Bryan CS, Stinson S, et al. Prosthetic valve 
endocarditis due to vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus 
faecium:  treatment with chloramphenicol plus 
minocycline. Clin Infect Dis . 2002;34:E61–E63.
623. Venditti M, Biavasco F , Varaldo PE, et al. Catheter-related 
endocarditis due to glycopeptide-resistant Enterococcus 
faecalis  in a transplanted heart. Clin Infect Dis . 
1993;17:524.
624. Leclercq R, Derlot E, Dural J, et al. Plasmid-mediated 
resistance to vancomycin and teicoplanin in Enterococcus 
faecium . N Engl J Med . 1988;319:157.
625. Fantin B, Leclercq R, Arthur M, et al. Influence of 
low-level resistance to vancomycin on efficacy of 
teicoplanin and vancomycin for treatment of 
experimental endocarditis due to Enterococcus faecium . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1991;35:1570.
626. Caron F , Kitzis M-D, Gutmann L, et al. Daptomycin or 
teicoplanin in combination with gentamicin for treatment 
of experimental endocarditis due to a highly 
glycopeptide-resistant isolate of Enterococcus faecium . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1992;36:261.
627. Konstantinov IE, Zehr KJ. Aortic root replacement in a 
patient with vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium  
endocarditis and leukemia. Chest . 2001;120:1744.
628. Caron F , Carbon C, Gutmann L. Triple-combination 
penicillin vancomycin-gentamicin for experimental 
endocarditis caused by a moderately penicillin- and 
highly glycopeptide-resistant isolate of Enterococcus 
faecium . J Infect Dis . 1991;164:888.
629. Caron F , Lemeland J-F , Humbert G, et al. Triple 
combination penicillin-vancomycin-gentamicin for 
experimental endocarditis caused by a highly 
penicillin- and glycopeptide-resistant isolate of 
Enterococcus faecium . J Infect Dis . 1993;168:681.
630. Fernandez-Guerrero M, Rouse MS, Henry NK, et al. In 
vitro and in vivo activity of ciprofloxacin against 
enterococci isolated from patients with infective 
endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1987;31:  
430.
631. Fantin B, Carbon C. Importance of aminoglycoside 
dosing regimen in the penicillin-netilmicin combination 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intravascular Infections 
1108.e9
for treatment of Enterococcus faecalis –induced 
experimental endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1990;34:2387.
632. Marangos MN, Nicolau DP , Nightingale CH, et al 
Influence of gentamicin dosing interval on the efficacy of 
penicillin-containing regimens in experimental 
Enterococcus faecalis  endocarditis. Presented at the 
Thirty-sixth Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial 
Agents and Chemotherapy. New Orleans, September 
15-18, 1996.
633. Wilson WR, Wilkowski CJ, Wright AJ, et al. Treatment of 
streptomycin-susceptible and streptomycin-resistant 
enterococcal endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 1984;100:816.
634. Olaison L, Schadewitz K, Swedish Society of Infectious 
Diseases Quality Assurance Study Group for 
Endocarditis. Enterococcal endocarditis in Sweden, 
1995-1999: can shorter therapy with aminoglycosides be 
used? Clin Infect Dis . 2002;34:159.
635. Mandell GL, Kaye D, Levison ME, et al. Enterococcal 
endocarditis: an analysis of 38 patients observed at the 
New Y ork Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. Arch Intern 
Med . 1970;125:258.
636. Moellering RC Jr, Watson BK, Kunz LJ. Endocarditis due 
to group D streptococci: comparison of disease caused by 
Streptococcus bovis  with that produced by the enterococci. 
Am J Med . 1974;57:239.
637. Dahl A, Rasmussen RV , Bundgaard H, et al. Enterococcus 
faecalis  infective endocarditis: a pilot study of the 
relationship between duration of gentamicin treatment 
and outcome. Circulation . 2013;127:1810–1817.
638. Karchmer AW . Staphylococcal endocarditis: laboratory 
and clinical basis for antibiotic therapy. Am J Med . 
1985;78(supplB):S116.
639. Sande MA, Courtney KB. Nafcillin-gentamicin synergism 
in experimental staphylococcal endocarditis. J Lab Clin 
Med . 1976;88:118.
640. Abrams B, Sklaver A, Hoffman T, et al. Single or 
combination therapy of staphylococcal endocarditis in 
intravenous drug abusers. Ann Intern Med . 1979;90:  
789.
641. Chambers HF , Miller RT, Newman MD. Right-sided 
Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis in intravenous drug 
abusers: two week combination therapy. Ann Intern Med . 
1988;109:619.
642. DiNubile MJ. Abbreviated therapy for right sided 
Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis in injecting drug 
users: the time has come? Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 
1994;13:533.
643. DiNubile MJ. Short-course antibiotic therapy for right 
sided Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis in injection 
drug users. Ann Intern Med . 1994;121:873.
644. Torres-Tortosa M, de Cueto M, Vergara A, et al. 
Prospective evaluation of a two-week course of 
intravenous antibiotics in intravenous drug addicts with 
infective endocarditis. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 
1994;13:559.
645. Espinosa FJ, Valdes M, Martin-Luengo M, et al. Right 
sided endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus  in 
parenteral drug addicts: evaluation of a combined 
therapeutic scheme for 2 weeks versus conventional 
treatment. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin . 1993;11:235.
646. Ribera E, Gomez-Jimenez J, Cortes E, et al. Effectiveness 
of cloxacillin with and without gentamicin in short-term 
therapy for right-sided Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis: a randomized, controlled trial. Ann Intern 
Med . 1996;125:969.
647. Fortun J, Navas E, Martinez-Beltran J, et al. Short-course 
therapy for right-side endocarditis due to Staphylococcus 
aureus  in drug abusers: cloxacillin versus glycopeptides in 
combination with gentamicin. Clin Infect Dis . 
2001;33:120.
648. Fowler VG Jr, Boucher HW , Corey GR, et al. Daptomycin 
versus standard therapy for bacteremia and endocarditis 
caused by Staphylococcus aureus . N Engl J Med . 
2006;355:653.
649. Carugati M, Bayer AS, Miro JM, et al. High-dose 
daptomycin therapy for left-sided infective endocarditis. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2013;57:6213–6222.
650. Dworkin RJ, Lee BL, Sande MA, et al. Treatment of 
right-sided Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis in 
intravenous drug users with ciprofloxacin and rifampicin. 
Lancet . 1989;2:1071.
651. Heldman AW , Hartert TV , Ray SC, et al. Oral antibiotic 
treatment of right-sided staphylococcal endocarditis in 
injection drug users: prospective randomized comparison 
with parenteral therapy. Am J Med . 1996;101:68.
652. Murray HW , Wigley FM, Mann JJ, et al. Combination 
antibiotic therapy in staphylococcal endocarditis: the use 
of methicillin sodium-gentamicin sulfate therapy. Arch 
Intern Med . 1976;136:480.
653. Korzeniowski OM, Sande MA, The National 
Collaborative Endocarditis Study Group. Combination 
antimicrobial therapy for Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis in patients addicted to parenteral drugs and 
in nonaddicts: a prospective study. Ann Intern Med . 
1982;97:496.
654. Cosgrove SE, Vigliani GA, Campion M, et al. Initial 
low-dose gentamicin for S. aureus  bacteremia and 
endocarditis is nephrotoxic. Clin Infect Dis . 2009;48:713.
655. Bayer AS, Murray BE. Initial low-dose aminoglycosides 
in Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: good science, urban 
legend, or just plain toxic? Clin Infect Dis . 2009;48:722.
656. Dodek P , Phillips P . Questionable history of immediate-
type hypersensitivity to penicillin in staphylococcal 
endocarditis: treatment based on skin-test results versus 
empirical alternative treatment—a decision analysis. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1999;29:1251.
657. Steckelberg JM, Rouse MS, Tallan BM, et al. Relative 
efficacies of broad-spectrum cephalosporins for treatment 
of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus  
experimental infective endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1993;37:554.
658. Fowler VG Jr, Kong LK, Corey GR, et al. Recurrent 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: pulsed-field gel 
electrophoresis findings in 29 patients. J Infect Dis . 
1999;179:1157.
659. Small PM, Chambers HF . Vancomycin for Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis in intravenous drug users. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 1990;34:1227.
660. Levine DP , Fromm BS, Reddy BR. Slow response to 
vancomycin or vancomycin plus rifampin in 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis. 
Ann Intern Med . 1991;115:674.
661. Lodise TP , Graves J, Evans A, et al. Relationship between 
vancomycin MIC and failure among patients with 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia 
treated with vancomycin. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2008;52:3315.
662. Soriano A, Marco F , Martinez JA, et al. Influence of 
vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration on the 
treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Clin Infect Dis . 2008;46:193.
663. van Hal SJ, Lodise TP , Paterson DL. The clinical 
significance of vancomycin minimum inhibitory 
concentration in Staphylococcus aureus  infections: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis. Clin Infect Dis . 
2012;54:755.
664. van Hal S, Fowler VG Jr. Is it time to replace vancomycin 
in the treatment of MRSA infections? Clin Infect Dis . 
2013;56:1779.
665. Holmes NE, Turnidge JD, Munckhof WJ, et al. Antibiotic 
choice may not explain poorer outcomes in patients with 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia and high vancomycin 
minimum inhibitory concentrations. J Infect Dis . 
2011;204:340.
666. Cervera C, Castañeda X, de la Maria CG, et al. Effect of 
vancomycin minimal inhibitory concentration on the 
outcome of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 2014;58:1668.
667. Liu C, Bayer A, Cosgrove SE, et al. Clinical practice 
guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America 
for the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  infections in adults and children. Clin Infect Dis . 
2011;52:e18.
668. Sharma M, Riederer K, Chase P , et al. High rate of 
decreasing daptomycin susceptibility during the 
treatment of persistent Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. 
Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 2008;27:433.
669. Murray KP , Zhao JJ, Davis SL, et al. Early use of 
daptomycin versus vancomycin for methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia with vancomycin 
minimum inhibitory concentration >1 mg/L: a matched 
cohort study. Clin Infect Dis . 2013;56:1562.
670. Mortara LA, Bayer AS. Staphylococcus  bacteremia and 
endocarditis: new diagnostic and therapeutic concepts. 
Infect Dis Clin North Am . 1993;7:53.
671. Bayer AS. Infective endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis . 
1993;17:313.
672. Watanakunakorn C. Clindamycin therapy of 
Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis: clinical relapse and 
development of resistance to clindamycin, lincomycin, 
and erythromycin. Am J Med . 1976;60:419.
673. Kaye D. The clinical significance of tolerance of 
Staphylococcus aureus . Ann Intern Med . 1980;93:924.
674. Jackson MA, Hicks RA. Vancomycin failure in 
staphylococcal endocarditis. Pediatr Infect Dis J . 
1987;6:750.
675. Rajashekaraiah KR, Rice T, Rao VS, et al. Clinical 
significance of tolerant strains of Staphylococcus aureus  in 
patients with endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 1980;93:796.
676. Voorn GP , Thompson J, Goessens WHF , et al. Role of 
tolerance in cloxacillin treatment of experimental 
Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis. J Infect Dis . 
1991;163:640.
677. Riedel DJ, Weekes E, Forrest GN. Addition of rifampin to 
standard therapy for treatment of native valve infective endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 2008;52:2463.
678. Zak O, Scheld WM, Sande MA. Rifampin in 
experimental endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus  in 
rabbits. Rev Infect Dis . 1983;5(suppl):481.
679. Thwaites GE, et al. Adjunctive rifampicin for 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia (ARREST): a 
multicenter, randomised, double-blind, placebo-
controlled trial. Lancet . 2017.
680. McDougal LK, Thornsberry C. The role of β-lactamase in 
staphylococcal resistance to penicillinase-resistant 
penicillins and cephalosporins. J Clin Microbiol . 
1986;23:832.
681. Hirano L, Bayer AS. β-Lactam- β-lactamase inhibitor 
combinations are active in experimental endocarditis 
caused by β-lactamase-producing oxacillin-resistant 
staphylococci. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1991;35:685.
682. Pefanis A, Thauvin-Eliopoulos C, Eliopoulos GM, et al. 
Activity of ampicillin-sulbactam and oxacillin in 
experimental endocarditis caused by β-lactamase–
hyperproducing Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1993;37:507.
683. Fernandez-Guerrero M, Rouse M, Henry N, et al. 
Ciprofloxacin therapy of experimental endocarditis 
caused by methicillin-susceptible or methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1988;32:747.
684. Kaatz GW , Seo SM, Lamp KC, et al. CI-960, a new 
fluoroquinolone, for therapy of experimental 
ciprofloxacin-susceptible and -resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1992;36:1192.
685. Bayer AS, Li C, Ing M. Efficacy of trovafloxacin, a new 
quinolone antibiotic, in experimental staphylococcal 
endocarditis due to oxacillin-resistant strains. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 1998;42:1837.
686. Kaatz GW , Seo SM, Barriere SL, et al. Development of 
resistance to fleroxacin during therapy of experimental 
methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1991;35:  
1547.
687. Munoz P , Berenguer J, Rodriguez-Creixems M, et al. 
Ciprofloxacin and infective endocarditis. Infect Dis Clin 
Pract . 1993;2:119.
688. Markowitz N, Quinn EL, Saravolatz LD. Trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole compared with vancomycin for 
treatment of Staphylococcus aureus  infection. Ann Intern 
Med . 1992;117:390.
689. del Río A, Gasch O, Moreno A, et al. Efficacy and safety 
of fosfomycin plus imipenem as rescue therapy for 
complicated bacteremia and endocarditis due to 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : a multicenter 
clinical trial. Clin Infect Dis . 2014;59:1105.
690. Fabre V , Ferrada M, Buckel WR, et al. Ceftaroline in 
combination with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for 
salvage therapy of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  bacteremia and endocarditis. Open Forum Infect 
Dis. 2014;1:ofu046.
691. Tattevin P , Boutoille D, Vitrat V , et al. Salvage treatment 
of methicillin-resistant staphylococcal endocarditis with 
ceftaroline: a multicentre observational study. J 
Antimicrob Chemother . 2014;69:2010.
692. Bayer AS, Lam K, Ginzton L. Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia: clinical, serologic, and echocardiographic 
findings in patients with and without endocarditis. Arch 
Intern Med . 1987;147:757.
693. Fowler VG Jr, Sanders LL, Kong LK, et al. Infective 
endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus:  59 
prospectively identified cases with follow-up. Clin Infect 
Dis. 1999;28:106.
694. Watanakunakorn C. Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis at 
a community teaching hospital, 1980 to 1991: an analysis 
of 106 cases. Arch Intern Med . 1994;154:2330.
695. Andrade-Baiocchi S, Tognim MC, Baiocchi OC, et al. 
Endocarditis due to glycopeptide-intermediate 
Staphylococcus aureus:  case report and strain 
characterization. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 2003;45:149.
696. Fridkin SK, Hageman J, McDougal LK, et al; 
Vancomycin-Intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  
Epidemiology Study Group. Epidemiological and 
microbiological characterization of infections caused by 
Staphylococcus aureus  with reduced susceptibility to 
vancomycin, United States, 1997-2001. Clin Infect Dis . 
2003;36:429.
697. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus —
Pennsylvania, 2002. MMWR Morbid Mortal Wkly Rep . 
2002;51:902.
698. Chang S, Sievert DM, Hageman JC, et al; Vancomycin-
Resistant Staphylococcus aureus  Investigative Team. 
Infection with vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  containing the vanA resistance gene. N Engl J 
Med . 2003;348:1342.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1108.e10
Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes699. Karchmer AW , Archer GL, Dismukes WE. Staphylococcus 
epidermidis  causing prosthetic valve endocarditis: 
microbiologic and clinical observations as guides to 
therapy. Ann Intern Med . 1983;98:447.
700. Schwalbe RS, Stapleton JT, Gilligan PH. Emergence of 
vancomycin resistance in coagulase-negative 
staphylococci. N Engl J Med . 1987;316:927.
701. Joly V , Parigon B, Vallois J-M, et al. Value of antibiotic 
levels in serum and cardiac vegetations for predicting 
antibacterial effect of ceftriaxone in experimental 
Escherichia coli  endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1987;31:1632.
702. Caron F , Gutmann L, Bure A, et al. Ceftriaxone-
sulbactam combination in rabbit endocarditis caused by  
a strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae  producing extended-
broad-spectrum TEM-3 β -lactamase. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1990;34:2070.
703. Mentec H, Vallois J-M, Bure A, et al. Piperacillin, 
tazobactam, and gentamicin alone or combined in an 
endocarditis model of infection by a TEM-3-producing 
strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae  or its susceptible variant. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1992;36:1883.
704. Potel G, Caillon J, Fantin B, et al. Impact of dosage 
schedule on the efficacy of gentamicin, tobramycin, or 
amikacin in an experimental model of Serratia 
marcescens  endocarditis: in vitro-in vivo correlation. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1991;35:111.
705. Potel G, Caillon J, LeGallou F , et al. Identification of 
factors affecting in vivo aminoglycoside activity in an 
experimental model of gram-negative endocarditis. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1992;36:774.
706. Rodriguez C, Olcoz MT, Izquierdo G, et al. Endocarditis 
due to ampicillin-resistant nontyphoid Salmonella:  cure 
with a third-generation cephalosporin. Rev Infect Dis . 
1990;12:817.
707. Hughes CF , Noble N. Vegetectomy: an alternative surgical 
treatment for infective endocarditis of the atrioventricular 
valves in drug addicts. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg . 
1988;95:857.
708. Arbulu A, Thomas NW , Chiscano A, et al. Total tricuspid 
valvulectomy without replacement in the treatment  
of Pseudomonas  endocarditis. Surg Forum .  
1971;22:162.
709. Mammana RB, Levitsky S, Sernaque D, et al. Valve 
replacement for left-sided endocarditis in drug addicts. 
Ann Thorac Surg . 1983;35:436.
710. Bayer AS, Crowell DJ, Yih J, et al. Comparative 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of amikacin 
and ceftazidime in tricuspid and aortic vegetations in 
experimental Pseudomonas  endocarditis. J Infect Dis . 
1988;158:355.
711. Bayer AS, Hirano L, Yih J. Development of β-lactam 
resistance and increased quinolone MIC’s during therapy 
of experimental Pseudomonas aeruginosa  endocarditis. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1988;32:231.
712. Parr TR Jr, Bayer AS. Mechanisms of aminoglycoside 
resistance in variants of Pseudomonas aeruginosa  isolated 
during treatment of experimental endocarditis in rabbits. 
J Infect Dis . 1988;158:1003.
713. Hessen MT, Pitsakis PG, Levison ME. Absence of a 
post-antibiotic effect in experimental Pseudomonas  
endocarditis treated with imipenem, with or without 
gentamicin. J Infect Dis . 1988;158:542.
714. Bayer AS, Park S, Ramos MC, et al. Effects of alginase on 
the natural history and antibiotic therapy of experimental 
endocarditis caused by mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa . 
Infect Immun . 1992;60:3979.
715. Jimenez-Lucho VE, Saravolatz LD, Medeiros AA, et al. 
Failure of therapy in Pseudomonas  endocarditis: selection 
of resistant mutants. J Infect Dis . 1986;154:64.
716. Daikos GL, Kathopalia SB, Lolans VT, et al. Long-term 
oral ciprofloxacin: experience in the treatment of 
incurable infective endocarditis. Am J Med . 1988;84:  
786.
717. Pefanis A, Giamarellou H, Karayiannakos P , et al. Efficacy 
of ceftazidime and aztreonam alone or in combination 
with amikacin in experimental left-sided Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa  endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1993;37:308.
718. Fichtenbaum CH, Smith MJ. Treatment of endocarditis 
due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa  with imipenem. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1992;14:353.
719. Martinez E, Miro JM, Almirante B, et al; Spanish 
Pneumococcal Endocarditis Study Group. Effect of 
penicillin resistance of Streptococcus pneumoniae  on the 
presentation, prognosis, and treatment of pneumococcal 
endocarditis in adults. Clin Infect Dis . 2002;35:130.
720. Weisner PJ, Handsfield HH, Holmes KK. Low antibiotic 
resistance of gonococci causing disseminated infection. N 
Engl J Med . 1973;288:1221.
721. Black JR, Brint JM, Reichart CA. Successful treatment of 
gonococcal endocarditis with ceftriaxone. J Infect Dis . 
1988;157:1281.722. Ellis ME, Al Abdely H, Sandridge A, et al. Fungal 
endocarditis: evidence in the world literature, 1965-1995. 
Clin Infect Dis . 2001;32:50.
723. Melgar GR, Nasser RM, Gordon RM, et al. Fungal 
prosthetic valve endocarditis: an 11-year experience in a 
tertiary hospital. Medicine (Baltimore) . 1997;76:94.
724. Pappas PG, Kauffman CA, Andes DR, et al. Clinical 
practice guideline for the management of candidiasis: 
2016 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of 
America. Clin Infect Dis . 2016;62:e1–e50.
725. Ernst JD, Rusmak M, Sande MA. Combination antifungal 
chemotherapy for experimental disseminated candidiasis: 
lack of correlation between in vitro and in vivo 
observations with amphotericin B and rifampin. Rev 
Infect Dis . 1983;5(suppl):626.
726. Longman LP , Martin MV . A comparison of the efficacy of 
itraconazole, amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine in the 
treatment of Aspergillus fumigatus  endocarditis in the 
rabbit. J Antimicrob Chemother . 1987;20:719.
727. Gumbo T, Taege AJ, Mawhorter S, et al. Aspergillus  valve 
endocarditis in patients without prior cardiac surgery. 
Medicine (Baltimore) . 2000;79:261.
728. Witt MD, Bayer AS. Comparison of fluconazole and 
amphotericin B for prevention and treatment of 
experimental Candida  endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1991;35:2481.
729. Venditti M, De Bernardis F , Micozzi A, et al. Fluconazole 
treatment of catheter-related right-sided endocarditis 
caused by Candida albicans  and associated with 
endophthalmitis and folliculitis. Clin Infect Dis . 
1992;14:422.
730. Czwerwiec FS, Bilsker MS, Kamerman ML, et al. 
Long-term survival after fluconazole therapy of candidal 
prosthetic valve endocarditis. Am J Med . 1993;94:545.
731. Nguyen MH, Nguyen ML, Yu VL, et al. Candida  
prosthetic valve endocarditis: prospective study of six 
cases and review of the literature. Clin Infect Dis . 
1996;22:262.
732. Arnold CJ, Johnson M, Bayer AS, et al. Candida  infective 
endocarditis: an observational cohort study with a  
focus on therapy. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2015;59:2365–2373.
733. Raoult D, Houpikian P , Tissot DH, et al. Treatment of Q 
fever endocarditis: comparison of 2 regimens containing 
doxycycline and ofloxacin or hydroxychloroquine. Arch 
Intern Med . 1999;159:167.
734. Haldane EV , Marrie TJ, Faulkner RS, et al. Endocarditis 
due to Q fever in Nova Scotia: experience with five 
patients in 1981-1982. J Infect Dis . 1983;148:978.
735. Street AC, Durack DT. Experience with trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole in treatment of infective endocarditis. 
Rev Infect Dis . 1988;10:915.
736. Levy PY , Drancourt M, Etienne J, et al. Comparison of 
different antibiotic regimens for therapy of 32 cases of  
Q fever endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1991;35:533.
737. Jones JB, Ridgeway GL, Boulding S, et al. In vitro activity 
of rifamycins alone and in combination with other 
antibiotics against Chlamydia trachomatis . Rev Infect Dis . 
1983;5(suppl):556.
738. Kiefer T, Park L, Tribouilloy C, et al. Association between 
valvular surgery and mortality among patients with 
infective endocarditis complicated by heart failure. JAMA . 
2011;306:2239–2247.
739. McAnulty JH, Rahimtoola SH. Surgery for infective 
endocarditis. JAMA . 1979;242:77.
740. Dinubile MJ. Surgery in active endocarditis. Ann Intern 
Med . 1980;96:650.
741. D’ Agostino RS, Miller DC, Stinson EB, et al. Valve 
replacement in patients with native valve endocarditis: 
what really determines operative outcome? Ann Thorac 
Surg . 1985;40:429.
742. Tolan RW Jr, Kleiman MB, Frank M, et al. Operative 
intervention in active endocarditis in children: report  
of a series of cases and review. Clin Infect Dis . 
1992;14:852.
743. Chirouze C, Alla F , Fowler VG Jr, et al. Impact of early 
valve surgery on outcome of Staphylococcus aureus  
prosthetic valve infective endocarditis: analysis in the 
International Collaboration of Endocarditis–Prospective 
Cohort Study. Clin Infect Dis . 2015;60:741.
744. Desch S, Freund A, de Waha S, et al. Outcome in patients 
with left-sided native-valve infective endocarditis and 
isolated large vegetations. Clin Cardiol . 2014;37:626.
745. Mansur AJ, Grinberg M, Lemosdaluz P , et al. The 
complications of infective endocarditis. Arch Intern Med . 
1992;152:2428.
746. Kang D, Kim YJ, Kim SH, et al. Early surgery versus 
conventional treatment for infective endocarditis. N Engl 
J Med . 2012;366:2466.
747. Hasbun R, Vikram HR, Barakat LA, et al. Complicated 
left-sided native valve endocarditis in adults: risk 
classification for mortality. JAMA . 2003;289:1933.748. Griffin FM, Jones G, Cobb CG. Aortic insufficiency in 
bacterial endocarditis. Ann Intern Med . 1972;76:23.
749. Karalis DG, Blumberg AE, Vilaro JF , et al. Prognostic 
significance of valvular regurgitation in patients with 
infective endocarditis. Am J Med . 1991;90:193.
750. Wilson WR, Danielson GK, Giuliani ER, et al. Valve 
replacement in patients with active infective endocarditis. 
Circulation . 1978;58:585.
751. Chuard C, Antley CM, Reller LB. Clinical utility of 
cardiac valve Gram stain and culture in patients 
undergoing native valve replacement. Arch Pathol Lab 
Med . 1998;122:412.
752. Barsic B, Dickerman S, Krajinovic V , et al. Influence of 
the timing of cardiac surgery on the outcome of patients 
with infective endocarditis and stroke. Clin Infect Dis . 
2013;56:209.
753. Garcia-Cabrera E, Fernandez-Hidalgo N, Almirante B, 
et al. Neurological complications of infective endocarditis: 
risk factors, outcome, and impact of cardiac surgery:  
a multicenter observational study. Circulation . 
2013;127:2272.
754. Arbulu A, Asfaw I. Tricuspid valvulectomy without 
prosthetic replacement: ten years of clinical experience. J 
Thorac Cardiovasc Surg . 1981;82:684.
755. Straumann E, Stulz P , Jenzer HR. Tricuspid valve 
endocarditis in the drug addict: a reconstructive 
approach (“vegetectomy. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg . 
1990;38:291.
756. DiNubile M. Surgery for addiction-related tricuspid valve 
endocarditis: caveat emptor. Am J Med . 1987;82:811.
757. Arbulu A, Asfaw I. Management of infective endocarditis: 
seventeen years’ experience. Ann Thorac Surg . 
1987;43:144.
758. Alsip SG, Blackstone EH, Kirklin JW , et al. Indications for 
cardiac surgery in patients with active infective 
endocarditis. Am J Med . 1985;78(suppl 6B):S38.
759. Blumberg EA, Karalis DA, Chandrasekaran K, et al. 
Endocarditis-associated paravalvular abscesses: do clinical 
parameters predict the presence of abscess? Chest . 
1995;107:898.
760. De Castro S, Magni G, Beni S, et al. Role of transthoracic 
echocardiography in predicting embolic events in patients 
with active endocarditis involving native cardiac valves. 
Am J Cardiol . 1997;57:329.
761. Moon MR, Stinson EB, Miller DC. Surgical treatment of 
endocarditis. Prog Cardiovasc Dis . 1997;40:239.
762. Tornos M-P , Permanyer-Miralda G, Olona M, et al. 
Long-term complications of native valve infective 
endocarditis in non-addicts: a 15-year follow-up study. 
Ann Intern Med . 1992;117:567.
763. Neuhof H, Seley GP . Acute suppurative phlebitis 
complicated by septicemia. Surgery . 1947;21:831.
764. Goldman DA, Maki DG, Rhame FS, et al. Guidelines for 
infection control in intravenous therapy. Ann Intern Med . 
1973;79:848.
765. Rupp ME. Infections of intravascular catheters and 
vascular devices. In: Crossley KB, Archer GL, eds. The 
Staphylococci in Human Disease . New Y ork: Churchill 
Livingstone; 1997:379.
766. O’Neill JA, Pruitt BA, Foley FD, et al. Suppurative 
thrombophlebitis: a lethal complication of intravenous 
therapy. J Trauma . 1968;8:256.
767. Stein JM, Pruitt BA. Suppurative thrombophlebitis: a 
lethal iatrogenic disease. N Engl J Med . 1970;282:1452.
768. Pruitt BA, Stein JM, Foley FD, et al. Intravenous therapy 
in burn patients: suppurative thrombophlebitis and other 
life-threatening complications. Arch Surg . 1970;100:  
399.
769. Pruitt BA, McManus WF , Kim SH, et al. Diagnosis and 
treatment of cannula-related intravenous sepsis in burn 
patients. Ann Surg . 1980;191:546.
770. Garrison RN, Richardson JD, Fry DE. Catheter-associated 
septic thrombophlebitis. South Med J . 1982;75:917.
771. Sacks-Berg A, Strampfer MJ, Cunha BA. Suppurative 
thrombophlebitis caused by intravenous line sepsis. Heart 
Lung . 1987;16:318.
772. Munster AM. Septic thrombophlebitis: a surgical 
disorder. JAMA . 1974;230:1010.
773. Berkowitz FE, Argent AC, Baise T. Suppurative 
thrombophlebitis: a serious nosocomial infection. Pediatr 
Infect Dis J . 1987;6:64.
774. Johnson RA, Zajac RA, Evans ME. Suppurative 
thrombophlebitis: correlation between pathogen and 
underlying disease. Infect Control . 1986;7:582.
775. Rhame FS, Maki DG, Bennett JV . Intravenous 
cannula-associated infections. In: Bennett JV , Brachman 
PS, eds. Hospital Infections . Boston: Little, Brown; 
1979:433.
776. Baker CC, Peterson SR, Sheldon GF . Septic phlebitis: a 
neglected disease. Am J Surg . 1979;138:97.
777. Sears N, Grosfeld JL, Weber TR, et al. Suppurative 
thrombophlebitis in childhood. Pediatrics . 1981;68:  
630.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 80  Endocarditis and Intravascular Infections 
1108.e11
778. Zinner MJ, Zuidema GD, Lowery BD. Septic 
nonsuppurative thrombophlebitis. Arch Surg . 
1976;111:122.
779. Maki DG. Infections due to infusion therapy. In: Bennett 
JV , Brachman PS, eds. Hospital Infections . Boston: Little, 
Brown; 1992:849.
780. Crowley AL, Peterson GE, Benjamin DK Jr, et al. Venous 
thrombosis in patients with short- and long-term central 
venous catheter-associated Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Crit Care Med . 2008;36:385.
781. Brismar B, Hardstedt C, Jacobson S. Diagnosis of 
thrombosis by catheter phlebography after prolonged 
central venous catheterization. Ann Surg . 1981;194:779.
782. Tagalakis V , Kahn SR, Libman M, et al. The epidemiology 
of peripheral vein infusion thrombophlebitis: a critical 
review. Am J Med . 2002;113:146.
783. Musher D, Goldsmith E, Dunbar S, et al. Association of 
hypercoagulable states and increased platelet adhesion 
and aggregation with bacterial colonization of 
intravenous catheters. J Infect Dis . 2002;186:769.
784. Slagle DC, Gates RH Jr. Unusual case of central vein 
thrombosis and sepsis. Am J Med . 1986;81:351.
785. Kaufman J, Demas C, Stark K, et al. Catheter-related 
septic central venous thrombosis: current therapeutic 
options. West J Med . 1986;145:200.
786. Veghese A, Widrich WC, Arbeit RD. Central venous 
septic thrombophlebitis: the role of medical therapy. 
Medicine (Baltimore) . 1985;64:394.
787. Strinden WD, Helgerson RB, Maki DG. Candida  septic 
thrombosis of the great central veins associated with 
central catheters: clinical features and management. Ann 
Surg . 1985;202:653.
788. Raad I, Narro J, Khan A, et al. Serious complications of 
vascular catheter-related Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia in cancer patients. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect 
Dis. 1992;11:675.
789. Haddad W , Idowu J, Georgeson K, et al. Septic atrial 
thrombosis: a potentially lethal complication of Broviac 
catheters in infants. Am J Dis Child . 1986;140:778.
790. Collins CG, MacCallum EA, Nelson EW , et al. 
Suppurative pelvic thrombophlebitis, I. Incidence, 
pathology, and etiology. Surgery . 1951;30:298.
791. Josey WE, Staggers SR. Heparin therapy in septic pelvic 
thrombophlebitis: a study of 46 cases. Am J Obstet 
Gynecol . 1974;120:228.
792. Collins CG. Suppurative pelvic thrombophlebitis: a study 
of 202 cases in which the disease was treated by ligation 
of the vena cava and ovarian vein. Am J Obstet Gynecol . 
1970;108:681.
793. Lim GM, Jeffrey RB Jr, Ralls PW , et al. Septic thrombosis 
of the portal vein: CT and clinical observations. J Comput 
Assist Tomogr . 1989;13:656.
794. Barenholtz L, Kaminsky NI, Palmer DL. Venous 
intramural microabscesses: a cause of protracted sepsis 
with intravenous cannulas. Am J Med Sci . 1973;265:335.
795. Gillespie P , Siddiqui H, Clarke J. Cannula related 
suppurative thrombophlebitis in the burned patient. 
Burns . 2000;26:200.
796. Khan EA, Correa AG, Baker CJ. Suppurative 
thrombophlebitis in children: a ten-year experience. 
Pediatr Infect Dis J . 1997;16:63.
797. Syndman DR, Murray SA, Kornfeld SJ, et al. Total 
parenteral nutrition-related infections: prospective 
epidemiologic study using semiquantitative methods. Am 
J Med . 1982;73:695.
798. Jupiter JB, Ehrlich MG, Novelline RA, et al. The 
association of septic thrombophlebitis with subperiosteal 
abscesses in children. J Pediatr . 1982;101:690.
799. Maki DG, Weise CE, Sarafin HW . A semiquantitative 
culture method for identifying intravenous-catheter-
related infection. N Engl J Med . 1977;296:1305.
800. Ashkenazi S, Pickering LK, Robinson LH. Diagnosis and 
management of septic thrombosis of the inferior vena 
cava caused by Candida tropicalis . Pediatr Infect Dis J . 
1990;9:446.
801. Mori H, Fukuda T, Isomoto I, et al. CT diagnosis of 
catheter-induced septic thrombosis of vena cava. J 
Comput Assist Tomogr . 1990;14:236.
802. Auber AE, Mancuso PA. Lemierre syndrome: magnetic 
resonance imaging and computed tomographic 
appearance. Mil Med . 2000;165:638.
803. Angel JL, Knuppel RA. Computed tomography in 
diagnosis of puerperal ovarian vein thrombosis. Obstet 
Gynecol . 1984;63:61.
804. Isada NB, Landy HJ, Larson JW Jr. Postabortal septic 
pelvic thrombophlebitis diagnosed with computed 
tomography. J Reprod Med . 1987;32:866.
805. Martin B, Molopulos GP , Bryan PJ. MRI of puerperal 
ovarian vein thrombosis. AJR Am J Roentgenol . 
1986;147:291.
806. Brook I. Superficial suppurative thrombophlebitis in 
children, caused by anaerobic bacteria. J Pediatr Surg . 
1998;33:1279.807. Torres-Rojas JR, Stratton CW , Sanders CV , et al. Candidal 
suppurative peripheral thrombophlebitis. Ann Intern 
Med . 1982;96:431.
808. Walsh TJ, Bustamente CI, Valhov D, et al. Candidal 
suppurative peripheral thrombophlebitis: recognition, 
prevention, and management. Infect Control . 1986;7:16.
809. Shek YH, Tucker MC, Viciana AL, et al. Malassezia 
furfur– disseminated infection in premature infants. Am J 
Clin Pathol . 1989;92:595.
810. Topiel MS, Bryan RT, Kessler CM, et al. Treatment of 
Silastic catheter-induced central vein septic 
thrombophlebitis. Am J Med Sci . 1986;291:425.
811. Barg NL, Supena RB, Fekety R. Persistent staphylococcal 
bacteremia in an intravenous drug abuser. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother . 1986;29:209.
812. Schranz D, Haugwitz D, Zimmer B, et al. Successful lysis 
of a septic thrombosis of the superior vena cava using 
recombinant tissue-plasminogen activator. Klin Padiatr . 
1991;203:363.
813. Josey WE, Cook CC. Septic pelvic thrombophlebitis: 
report of 17 patients treated with heparin. Obstet Gynecol . 
1970;35:891.
814. Moran JM, Atwood RP , Rowe MI. A clinical and 
bacteriologic study of infections associated with venous 
cutdowns. N Engl J Med . 1965;272:554.
815. Norden CW . Application of antibiotic ointment to the site 
of venous catheterization: a controlled trial. J Infect Dis . 
1969;120:611.
816. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Part 1: 
intravascular device-related infection—an overview. Part 
2. Recommendations for prevention of intravascular 
device-related infections. Fed Reg . 1995;60:49978.
817. Patel S, Johnston KW . Classification and management of 
mycotic aneurysms. Surg Gynecol Obstet . 1977;144:  
691.
818. Parkhurst GF , Decker JP . Bacterial aortitis and mycotic 
aneurysms of the aorta: a report of 12 cases. Am J Pathol . 
1955;31:821.
819. Sommerville RL, Allen EV , Edwards JE. Bland and 
infected arteriosclerotic abdominal aortic aneurysms: a 
clinicopathologic study. Medicine (Baltimore) . 
1959;38:207.
820. Sekkal S, Cornu E, Cristides C, et al. Isolated iliac 
aneurysms: seventy-seven cases in forty-eight patients. J 
Mal Vasc . 1993;18:13.
821. Stengel A, Wolfroth CC. Mycotic (bacterial) aneurysms of 
intra-vascular origin. Arch Intern Med . 1923;31:527.
822. Tsao JW , Marder SR, Goldstone J, et al. Presentation, 
diagnosis, and management of arterial mycotic 
pseudoaneurysms in injection drug users. Ann Vasc Surg . 
2002;16:652.
823. Bennett DE, Cherry JK. Bacterial infection of aortic 
aneurysms: a clinicopathologic study. Am J Surg . 
1967;113:321.
824. Cliff MM, Soulen RL, Firestone AJ. Mycotic aneurysms: a 
challenge and a clue. Arch Intern Med . 1970;126:977.
825. Jarrett F , Darling C, Mundth ED, et al. Experience with 
infected aneurysms of the abdominal aorta. Arch Surg . 
1975;110:1281.
826. Bohmfalk GL, Story JL, Wissenger JP , et al. Bacterial 
intracranial aneurysm. J Neurosurg . 1978;48:369.
827. Frazee JG, Cahan LD, Winter J. Bacterial intracranial 
aneurysms. J Neurosurg . 1980;53:633.
828. Selky AK, Roos KL. Neurologic complications of infective 
endocarditis. Semin Neurol . 1992;12:225.
829. Tunkel AR, Kaye D. Neurologic complications of infective 
endocarditis. Neurol Clin . 1993;11:419.
830. Bullock R, Van Dellen JR, Van den Heever CM. 
Intracranial mycotic aneurysms: a review of 9 cases. S Afr 
Med J . 1981;60:970.
831. John RM, Pugsley W , Treasure T, et al. Aortic root 
complications of infective endocarditis: influence on 
surgical outcome. Eur Heart J . 1991;12:241.
832. Hollingworth J, Palmer KS, Simms MH. Ruptured 
mycotic aneurysm of the abdominal aorta in childhood. 
Eur J Vasc Surg . 1992;6:665.
833. Cribari C, Meadors FA, Crawford ES, et al. Thoraco-
abdominal aortic aneurysm associated with umbilical 
artery catheterization: case report and review of the 
literature. J Vasc Surg . 1992;16:75.
834. Dean RH, Mecham PW , Weaver FA, et al. Mycotic 
embolism and embolomycotic aneurysms: neglected 
lessons of the past. Ann Surg . 1986;204:300.
835. Jarrett F , Darling RC, Mundth ED, et al. The management 
of infected arterial aneurysms. J Cardiovasc Surg . 
1977;18:361.
836. Johnson JR, Ledgerwood AM, Lucas CE. Mycotic 
aneurysm: new concepts in therapy. Arch Surg . 
1983;118:577.
837. Brummitt CF , Kravitz GR, Granrud GA, et al. Femoral 
endarteritis due to Staphylococcus aureus  complicating 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. Am J 
Med . 1989;86:822.838. Frazee BW , Flaherty JP . Septic endarteritis of the femoral 
artery following angioplasty. Rev Infect Dis . 1991;13:620.
839. Pruitt A, Dodson TF , Najibi S, et al. Distal septic emboli 
and fatal brachiocephalic artery mycotic pseudoaneurysm 
as a complication of stenting. J Vasc Surg . 2002;36:625.
840. Tsao JW , Neymark E, Gooding GA. Radial artery mycotic 
pseudoaneurysm: an unusual complication of 
catheterization. J Clin Ultrasound . 2000;28:414.
841. Shindo S, Arai H, Kubota K, et al. Rupture of infected 
pseudoaneurysms in patients with implantable ports for 
intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy. J Cardiovasc Surg . 
2000;41:95.
842. Feigl D, Feigl A, Edwards JE. Mycotic aneurysms of the 
aortic root: a pathologic study of 20 cases. Chest . 
1986;90:553.
843. Jebara V A, Dervanian P , Acar C, et al. Mycotic aneurysm 
of the carotid artery secondary to acute bacterial 
endocarditis. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss . 1992;85:1615.
844. Akers DL Jr, Fowl RJ, Kempczinski RF . Mycotic aneurysm 
of the tibioperoneal trunk: case report and review of the 
literature. J Vasc Surg . 1992;16:71.
845. Sedwitz MM, Hye RJ, Stabile BE. The changing 
epidemiology of pseudoaneurysm: therapeutic 
implications. Arch Surg . 1988;123:473.
846. Morgan MB, Cintron G, Balis JV . Infective “mycotic” 
aortic root aneurysm following coronary artery bypass 
grafting. Am J Med . 1993;94:550.
847. Prech M, Grajek S, Cieslinski A, et al. Mycotic aneurysm 
of the ascending aorta following CABG. Heart . 
2000;83:E3.
848. Vyas SK, Law NW , Loehry CA. Mycotic aneurysm of the 
left subclavian artery. Br Heart J . 1993;69:455.
849. Hurst RW , Choi IS, Persky M, et al. Mycotic aneurysms 
of the intracavernous carotid artery: a case report and 
review of the literature. Surg Neurol . 1992;37:142.
850. Kyriakides GK, Simmons RL, Najarian JS. Mycotic 
aneurysms in transplant patients. Arch Surg . 
1976;111:472.
851. Smith EJ, Milligan SL, Filo RS. Salmonella  mycotic 
aneurysms after renal transplantation. South Med J . 
1981;74:1399.
852. Olmsted WW , McGee TP . The pathogenesis of peripheral 
aneurysms of the central nervous system: a subject review 
from the AFIP . Radiology . 1977;123:661.
853. Salgado AV , Furlan AJ, Keys TF . Mycotic aneurysm, 
subarachnoid hemorrhage, and indications for cerebral 
angiography in infective endocarditis. Stroke . 
1987;18:1057.
854. Wilson WR, Lie JT, Houser OW , et al. The management 
of patients with mycotic aneurysm. Curr Clin Top Infect 
Dis. 1981;2:151.
855. Barrow DL, Prats AR. Infectious intracranial aneurysms: 
comparison of groups with and without endocarditis. 
Neurosurgery . 1990;27:562.
856. Friedman SG, Pogo GJ, Moccio CG. Mycotic aneurysm of 
the superior mesenteric artery. J Vasc Surg . 1987;6:87.
857. Sukerkar AN, Dulay CC, Anandappa E, et al. Mycotic 
aneurysm of the hepatic artery. Radiology . 1977;124:444.
858. Khoda J, Lantsberg L, Sebbag G. Hepatic artery mycotic 
aneurysm as a cause of hemobilia. J Hepatol . 1993;17:  
131.
859. Carrel D, Cohle SD, Chapman AJ. Fatal hemothorax from 
mycotic celiac artery aneurysm. Am J Med Pathol . 
1992;13:233.
860. Feinsod FM, Norfleet RG, Hoehn JL. Mycotic aneurysm 
of the external iliac artery: a triad of clinical signs 
facilitating early diagnosis. JAMA . 1977;238:245.
861. Merry M, Dunn J, Weissmann R, et al. Popliteal mycotic 
aneurysm presenting as septic arthritis and purpura. 
JAMA . 1972;221:58.
862. Plate G, Forsley N, Stigsson L, et al. Management of 
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysm. Acta Chir 
Scand . 1988;154:19.
863. Pennell RC, Hollier LH, Lie JT, et al. Inflammatory 
abdominal aortic aneurysms: a thirty year review. J Vasc 
Surg . 1985;2:859.
864. Morrow C, Safi H, Beall AC Jr. Primary aortoduodenal 
fistula caused by Salmonella  aortitis. J Vasc Surg . 
1987;6:415.
865. Villablanca JP , Jahan R, Hooshi P , et al. Detection and 
characterization of very small cerebral aneurysms by 
using 2D and 3D helical CT angiography. AJNR Am J 
Neuroradiol . 2002;23:1187.
866. White PM, Teasdale EM, Wardlaw JM, et al. Intracranial 
aneurysms: CT angiography and MR angiography for 
detection prospective blinded comparison in a large 
patient cohort. Radiology . 2001;219:739–749.
867. Kimura I, Okumura R, Y amashita K, et al. Mycotic 
aneurysm. Radiat Med . 1989;7:121.
868. Atlas SW . Magnetic resonance imaging of intracranial 
aneurysms. Neuroimaging Clin North Am . 1997;7:709.
869. Nguyen BT. Computed tomography diagnosis of thoracic 
aortic aneurysms. Semin Roentgenol . 2001;36:309.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.1108.e12
Part II  Major Clinical Syndromes870. Vogelzang RL, Sohaey R. Infected aortic aneurysms: CT 
appearance. J Comput Assist Tomogr . 1988;12:109.
871. Blair RH, Resnik MD, Polga JP . CT appearance of 
mycotic abdominal aortic aneurysms. J Comput Assist 
Tomogr . 1989;13:101.
872. Rivera JV , Blanco G, Perez M, et al. Gallium-67 
localization in a mycotic aneurysm of the thoracic aorta. 
Clin Nucl Med . 1985;10:814.
873. Zwas ST, Lorberboyin M, Schechter M. Occult aortic arch 
mycotic aneurysm diagnosed by radio gallium 
scintigraphy. Clin Nucl Med . 1992;17:797.
874. Ben-Haim S, Seabold JE, Hawes DR, et al. Leukocyte 
scintigraphy in the diagnosis of mycotic aneurysm. J Nucl 
Med . 1992;33:1486.
875. Ramo OJ, Vorne M, Lantto E, et al. Postoperative graft 
incorporation after aortic reconstruction: comparison 
between computerized tomography and Tc-99m-HMPAO 
labelled leukocyte imaging. Eur J Vasc Surg . 1993;7:122.
876. Brewster DC, Retana A, Waltman AC, et al. Angiography 
in the management of aneurysms of the abdominal aorta. 
N Engl J Med . 1972;292:822.
877. Griffiths BE, Petch MC, English TAH. Echocardiographic 
detection of subvalvular aortic root aneurysm extending 
to mitral valve annulus as complication of aortic valve 
endocarditis. Br Heart J . 1982;47:392.
878. Ozkutlu S, Ozbarlas N, Bilgi CA, et al. Mycotic aneurysm 
of the descending aorta diagnosed by echocardiography. 
Int J Cardiol . 1992;37:112.
879. Vargas-Barron J, Avila-Rosales L, Romero-Cardenas A, 
et al. Echocardiographic diagnosis of a mycotic aneurysm 
of the main pulmonary artery and patent ductus 
arteriosus. Am Heart J . 1992;123:1707.
880. Benenson S, Raveh D, Schlesinger Y , et al. The risk of 
vascular infection in adult patients with nontyphi 
Salmonella  bacteremia. Am J Med . 2001;110:60.
881. Kanwar YS, Malhotra U, Anderson BR, et al. 
Salmonellosis associated with abdominal aortic 
aneurysm. Arch Intern Med . 1974;134:1095.
882. Soravia-Dunand V A, Loo VG, Salit IE. Aortitis due to 
Salmonella:  report of 10 cases and comprehensive review 
of the literature. Clin Infect Dis . 1999;29:862.
883. Cohen JI, Bartlett JA, Corey GR. Extra-intestinal 
manifestations of Salmonella  infections. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1987;66:349.
884. Cohen OS, O’Brien TF , Schoenbaum SC, et al. The risk of 
endothelial infection in adults with Salmonella  
bacteremia. Ann Intern Med . 1978;89:931.
885. Flamand F , Harris KA, DeRose G, et al. Arteritis due to 
Salmonella  with aneurysm formation: two cases. Can J 
Surg . 1992;35:248.886. McIntyre KE Jr, Malone JM, Richards E. Mycotic aortic 
pseudoaneurysm with aortoenteric fistula caused by 
Arizona hinshawii . Surgery . 1982;91:173.
887. Feltis BA, Lee DA, Beilman GJ. Mycotic aneurysm of the 
descending thoracic aorta caused by Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa  in a solid organ transplant recipient: case 
report and review. Surg Infect . 2002;3:29.
888. Kumar N, Prabhakar G, Kandeel M, et al. Brucella  
mycotic aneurysm of ascending aorta complicating 
discrete subaortic stenosis. Am Heart J . 1993;125:  
1780.
889. Anolik JR, Mildvan D, Winter JW , et al. Mycotic aortic 
aneurysm: a complication of Campylobacter fetus  
septicemia. Arch Intern Med . 1983;143:609.
890. Garto AR, Cone LA, Woodard DR, et al. Arterial 
infections due to Listeria monocytogenes:  report of four 
cases and review of world literature. Clin Infect Dis . 
1992;14:23.
891. Clouse WD, DeWitt CC, Hagino RT, et al. Rapidly 
enlarging iliac aneurysm secondary to Listeria 
monocytogenes  infection: a case report. Vasc Endovasc 
Surg . 2003;37:145.
892. Andreasen DA, Dimcecski G, Nielsen H. Mycotic 
aneurysm of the aorta caused by group B streptococcus. 
Scand J Infect Dis . 2002;34:208.
893. Fournier PE, Casalta JP , Piquet P , et al. Coxiella burnetii  
infection of aneurysms or vascular grafts: report of seven 
cases and review. Clin Infect Dis . 1998;26:116.
894. Hurley L, Howe K. Mycotic aortic aneurysm infected by 
Clostridium septicum:  a case history. Angiology . 
1991;42:585.
895. Steig TA, Johannesen N, Schonheyder HC. Propensity of 
Streptococcus pneumoniae  for the aorta: report of 3 cases. 
Scand J Infect Dis . 2001;33:772.
896. Long R, Guzman R, Greenberg H, et al. Tuberculous 
mycotic aneurysm of the aorta: review of published 
medical and surgical experience. Chest . 1999;115:  
522.
897. Mielke B, Weir B, Oldring D, et al. Fungal aneurysm: case 
report and review of the literature. Neurosurgery . 
1981;9:578.
898. Hadley MN, Martin NA, Spetzler RF , et al. Multiple 
intracranial aneurysms due to Coccidioides immitis  
infection. J Neurosurg . 1987;66:453.
899. Ogden PE, Hurley DL, Cain PT. Fatal fungal endarteritis 
caused by Bipolaris spicifera  following replacement of the 
aortic valve. Clin Infect Dis . 1992;14:596.
900. Aguado JM, Valle R, Arjona R, et al. Aortic bypass graft 
infection due to Aspergillus:  report of a case and review. 
Clin Infect Dis . 1992;14:916.901. McLean DR, Russell N, Khan MY . Neurobrucellosis: 
clinical and therapeutic features. Clin Infect Dis . 
1992;15:582.
902. Bingham WF . Treatment of mycotic intracranial 
aneurysms. J Neurosurg . 1977;46:428.
903. Semba CP , Sakai T, Slonim SM, et al. Mycotic aneurysms 
of the thoracic aorta: repair with use of endovascular 
stent-grafts. J Vasc Interv Radiol . 1998;9:33.
904. Leipzig MJ, Brown FD. Treatment of mycotic aneurysms. 
Surg Neurol . 1985;23:403.
905. Rodesch G, Noterman J, Thys JP , et al. Treatment of 
intracranial mycotic aneurysm: surgery or not? Acta 
Neurochir . 1987;85:63.
906. Phuong LK, Link M, Wijdicks E. Management of 
intracranial infectious aneurysms: a series of 16 cases. 
Neurosurgery . 2002;51:1145.
907. Reddy DJ, Smith RF , Elliott JP Jr, et al. Infected femoral 
artery false aneurysms in drug addicts: evolution  
of selective vascular reconstruction. J Vasc Surg . 
1986;3:718.
908. Johansen K, Devin J. Mycotic aortic aneurysms: a 
reappraisal. Arch Surg . 1983;118:583.
909. Parsons R, Gregory J, Palmer DL. Salmonella  infections of 
the abdominal aorta. Rev Infect Dis . 1983;5:227.
910. Bitseff EJ, Edwards WH, Mulherin JL Jr, et al. Infected 
abdominal aortic aneurysms. South Med J . 1987;80:309.
911. Taylor LM Jr, Deitz DM, McConnell DB, et al. Treatment 
of infected abdominal aneurysms by extra anatomic 
bypass, aneurysm excision, and drainage. Am J Surg . 
1988;155:655.
912. Pasic M, Carrel T, von Segesser L, et al. In situ repair of 
mycotic aneurysm of the ascending aorta. J Thorac 
Cardiovasc Surg . 1993;105:321.
913. Cull DL, Winter RP , Wheeler JR, et al. Mycotic aneurysm 
of the suprarenal abdominal aorta. J Thorac Cardiovasc 
Surg . 1992;33:181.
914. Robinson JA, Johansen K. Aortic sepsis: is there a role for 
in situ graft reconstruction? J Vasc Surg . 1991;13:677.
915. Pasic M, Carrel T, Vogt M, et al. Treatment of mycotic 
aneurysm of the aorta and its branches: the location 
determines the operative technique. Eur J Vasc Surg . 
1992;6:419.
916. Viglione G, Y ounes GA, Coste P , et al. Mycotic aneurysm 
of the celiac trunk: radical resection and reconstruction 
without prosthetic material. J Cardiovasc Surg . 
1993;34:73.
917. Pasic M, von Segesser L, Turina M. Implantation of 
antibiotic-releasing carriers and in situ reconstruction  
for treatment of mycotic aneurysm. Arch Surg . 
1992;127:745.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on 
September 12, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.