3059viii Higher Bacterial Diseases
Nocardia Species
Sharon C-A. Chen, Matthew R. Watts, Susan Maddocks, and 
Tania C. Sorrell 253 
Definition
• Nocardiosis results from infection by members 
of the genus Nocardia,  which are ubiquitous 
environmental saprophytes that cause 
localized or disseminated disease in humans and animals.
Microbiology and Epidemiology
• Microscopically, Nocardia  appear as 
gram-positive, beaded, weakly acid-fast, branching rods.
•
 Molecular speciation has revolutionized 
taxonomy by identifying several new species and reassigning species, especially from the commonest pathogenic group, the former 
Nocardia asteroides  complex.
• Infection arises by direct inoculation through 
the skin or by inhalation.
• Mycetomas from Nocardia  spp., most often 
caused by N. brasiliensis,  primarily affect 
immunocompetent hosts in tropical countries.
• Immunocompromise , alcoholism, and certain 
lung diseases predispose patients to pulmonary and disseminated nocardiosis, most often due to 
N. cyriacigeorgica , N. nova,  or N. 
farcinica.
Clinical Manifestations
• Primary skin infection may be manifested as 
superficial cellulitis or pyogenic abscess(es), lymphocutaneous (spirotrichoid) infection, or chronically progressive, destructive disease with sinus tract formation (mycetoma), usually on a distal limb.
•
 Presentation of lung disease may be subacute 
or chronic, with productive or nonproductive cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, and fever, and other systemic symptoms. Cavity formation within the pneumonia or spread to the central nervous system (CNS), or both, are suggestive of nocardiosis. Isolated CNS lesions also occur, and their presentation can be insidious.
Diagnosis
• Cerebral imaging,  preferably magnetic 
resonance imaging, should be performed in all cases of pulmonary and disseminated nocardiosis to rule out insidious CNS disease.
•
 T he microbiology laboratory should be 
informed of suspected nocardiosis because it may not be detected by routine laboratory methods. Respiratory secretions, skin biopsies, or aspirates from deep collections are the most useful diagnostic specimens and are typically positive on Gram stain. Modified acid-fast stain of sputum or pus is helpful in suggesting the diagnosis. Growth of 
Nocardia  
spp. may take 48 hours to several weeks but usually 3 to 5 days.
•
 Species identification may be predictive of 
antimicrobial susceptibility; it often requires molecular identification based on nucleic acid technology (NAT, DNA sequencing).
•
 Recently , mass spectrometry analysis using 
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry has been reported to be a reliable and more rapid alternative to NAT, but species identification is contingent on a reliable mass spectral database.
Therapy and Follow-Up
• T rimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) is 
the mainstay of treatment, and monotherapy is usually successful in patients with isolated skin infection or mycetomas that are not extensive (see Table 253.3).
•
 In infection spread beyond the lung,  speciation 
and/or susceptibility testing results should guide definitive combination therapy. TMP-SMX is usually included in initial therapy.
•
 Empirical therapy with TMP-SMX plus 
amikacin (with imipenem or meropenem) is recommended in immunocompromised patients or those with disseminated disease but no brain involvement.
•
 F or isolated cerebral disease, empirical 
TMP-SMX plus imipenem or meropenem are suitable.
•
 When additional sites are involved or the 
patient has life-threatening disease, empirical three-drug regimens, such as TMP-SMX, meropenem or imipenem, and amikacin (or ceftriaxone in patients with renal failure), are preferred. Initial adjunctive therapy with linezolid is an option, especially if one of these classes of drug is contraindicated.
•
 Clinical improvement is generally evident 
within 3 to 5 days or, at the most, 7 to 10 days after initiation of appropriate therapy.
•
 Prolonged therapy is necessary to prevent 
relapse.
• Surgical excision or drainage of pus may be 
required, depending on the extent and site of the lesions or the response to medical therapy, or both.
•
 P atients with deep-seated infection should be 
monitored clinically and radiologically during and for up to 12 months after cessation of therapy.SHORT VIEW SUMMARY
Nocardia  is a genus of aerobic actinomycetes responsible for localized 
or disseminated infections in animals and humans. The genus is named 
after Edmond Nocard, who in 1888 described the isolation of an aerobic actinomycete from cattle with bovine farcy. The first human case of nocardiosis was reported by Eppinger in 1890. Cases of human disease 
have increased substantially in the past 2 decades, in association with 
an increasing population of immunocompromised hosts and improved methods for detection and identification of Nocardia  spp. in the clinical 
laboratory. In parallel, an increasing number of novel species of Nocardia  
has been recognized as human pathogens.CLASSIFICATION
The aerobic actinomycetes are a large and diverse group of gram-positive bacteria
1 that appear on microscopy as branching, filamentous cells. 
Members of the group are often only distantly related phylogenetically. A subgroup, classified in the suborder Corynebacterineae, is the most important cause of human and veterinary infection and includes the genera Mycobacterium, Corynebacterium, Nocardia, Rhodococcus, 
Gordonia,  and Tsukamurella.
1 All members of the group have cell walls 
containing meso-diaminopimelic acid, arabinose, galactose (type IV cell wall
1), and mycolic acids of various chain lengths. The latter are 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3060Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) has proven useful for identification 
of clinically relevant Nocardia  spp.3,4
The application of molecular methods2,5,6 has greatly expanded the 
spectrum of pathogenic nocardiae and has led to significant taxonomic changes and species reassignment within the genus. This is particularly evident among isolates formerly assigned to the Nocardia asteroides  
complex.
2 More than 100 Nocardia  spp. have now been identified 
(National Center for Biotechnology Information—taxonomy for Nocardia:  
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Taxonomy/, and www.bacterio.net/nocardia.html), many of which have been implicated in human disease (Table 253.1).
2,6,7 
The nomenclature of isolates formerly in the N. asteroides complex is 
summarized in Table 253.2 and includes Nocardia cyriacigeorgica,8 
Nocardia abscessus,9 the Nocardia nova  complex, and the Nocardia 
transvalensis complex. Other major human pathogens include Nocardia responsible for varying degrees of acid fastness on modified acid-fast staining. In this chapter the genus Nocardia  is discussed in the context 
of human infection.
Previous taxonomic classifications have relied on traditional phe -
notypic methods to assign nocardiae to both genus and species. Nocardia  
spp. are characterized by an ability to form aerial hyphae and to grow in media containing lysozyme and by an inability to grow at 50°C.
1,2 
Speciation using biochemical reactions has been largely superseded due to their frequent inability to distinguish between species, especially those that are phylogenetically closely related.
1,2
Molecular Identification and Taxonomy
Molecular techniques are now preferred for accurate species determina -
tion. In addition, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight 
TABLE 253.1  Curr ent Classifiable Nocardia Species Names
NOCARDIA SPECIESaFREQUENCYb
Nocardia donostiensis
Nocardia elegans 12
Nocardia endophytica
Nocardia exalbida 4
Nocardia farcinica 160
Nocardia flavorosea
Nocardia fluminea
Nocardia fusca
Nocardia gamkensisNocardia globerula
Nocardia goodfellowiiNocardia grenadensisNocardia harenae
Nocardia heshunensisNocardia higoensis 1
Nocardia ignorataNocardia inohanensis 1
Nocardia interformaNocardia iowensis
Nocardia jejuensis
Nocardia jiangxiensisNocardia jinanensisNocardia kruczakiae
Nocardia lasiiNocardia levisNocardia lijiangensis
Nocardia lillensisNocardia mexicana
Nocardia mikamii
Nocardia miyunensis
Nocardia neocaledoniensis
Nocardia niigatensis 4
Nocardia ninaeNocardia niwaeNocardia nova 81
Nocardia novocastrensa
Nocardia otitidiscaviarum 14
Nocardia paucivorans 1NOCARDIA SPECIESaFREQUENCYb
Nocardia abscessus 22
Nocardia acidovorans
Nocardia africanaNocardia albaNocardia alboflava
Nocardia altamirensisNocardia amamiensis
Nocardia amikacinitolerans
Nocardia anaemiaeNocardia aobensis 5
Nocardia araoensis 1
Nocardia argentinensis
Nocardia arizonensis
Nocardia artemisiaeNocardia arthritidis 4
Nocardia asiatica 21
Nocardia asteroides 2
Nocardia beijingensis 24
Nocardia bhagyanarayanae
Nocardia blacklockiae
Nocardia boironiiNocardia brasiliensis 71
Nocardia brevicatena
Nocardia caishijiensisNocardia callitridisNocardia camponoti
Nocardia canicruriaNocardia carnea 3
Nocardia casaurinaeNocardia caverna
Nocardia cerradoensis
Nocardia coeliaca
Nocardia concava 3
Nocardia coubleae
Nocardia crassostreaeNocardia cummidelens
Nocardia cyriacigeorgica 60
Nocardia devorans
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3061Chapter 253  Nocardia  SpeciesTABLE 253.1  Curr ent Classifiable Nocardia Species Names—cont’d
NOCARDIA SPECIESaFREQUENCYb
Nocardia pigrifrangens
Nocardia pneumoniae
Nocardia polyresistensNocardia pseudobrasiliensis 2
Nocardia pseudosporangifera
Nocardia pseudovacciniiNocardia puris 4
Nocardia rayongensis
Nocardia rhamnosiphila
Nocardia rhizosphaerae
Nocardia rhizosphaerihabitansNocardia roseoalba
Nocardia salmonicida
Nocardia salmonicolor
Nocardia seriolae
Nocardia shimofusensisNocardia sienata 1
Nocardia soli
Nocardia speluncaeNocardia strombolensis
Nocardia sungurluensisNocardia sylvodoriferaNOCARDIA SPECIESaFREQUENCYb
Nocardia takedensis
Nocardia tartaricans
Nocardia tenerifensisNocardia tengchongensis
Nocardia terpenica 1
Nocardia testacea 2
Nocardia thailandica 1
Nocardia thraciensis
Nocardia transvalensis 13
Nocardia uniformisNocardia vacciniiNocardia vermiculata
Nocardia veterana 3
Nocardia vinacea 3
Nocardia violaceofusca
Nocardia vulnerisNocardia wallacei 10
Nocardia xestospongiae
Nocardia xishanensisNocardia yamanashiensis
Nocardia zapadnayensis
aSpecies names in http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Taxonomy/Browser/wwwtax.cgi. Accessed January 22, 2018.
bFrequency of classifiable isolates at Chiba University, Medical Mycology Center, 1999–2007.
Data from Mikami U. [Recent progress in taxonomic studies on pathogenic Nocardia and usefulness of the bacteria for the studies on secondary metabolites and antibiotic 
resistant mechanisms]. Nihon Ishinkin Gakkai Zasshi . 2010;51:179–192 [in Japanese].
TABLE 253.2  Nocardia asteroides Complex: Major 
Changes in Taxonomic Categoriesa
FORMER SPECIES OR 
SPECIES GROUP ASSIGNMENTCURRENT SPECIES GROUP DESIGNATIONCURRENT SPECIES DESIGNATION
N. asteroides  drug pattern I — N. abscessus
N. asteroides  drug pattern II N. paucivorans/N. 
brevicatena complexN. paucivoransb
N. brevicatenab
N. asteroides  drug pattern III N. nova complexcN. nova sensu stricto, 
N. africana
N. aobensis
N. elegans,  
N. kruczakiae,  
N. veterana
N. asteroides  drug pattern IVdN. transvalensis  
complexN. wallacei, N. 
transvalensis sensu stricto, N. 
blacklockiae
N. asteroides  drug pattern V N. farcinica
N. asteroides  drug pattern VI N. cyriacigeorgica
aN. brevicatena  and N. paucivorans  are not new species names; they have been 
reclassified.
bN. asteroides  sensu stricto is rarely pathogenic.
cIt is uncertain to which species the former N. asteroides  drug pattern III isolates 
now correspond.
dOnly N. wallacei  is designated as the former “ N. asteroides  drug pattern IV.” The 
other members of the N. transvalensis  complex are previously either separate as 
“N. asteroides  complex” or are recently identified species.
Data from Conville PS, Witebsky FG. Nocardia, Rhodococcus, Gordonia, 
Actinomadura, Streptomyces, and other aerobic actinomycetes. In: Jorgensen JH, 
Pfaller MA, Carroll KC, et  al., eds. Manual of Clinical Microbiology . Washington, 
DC: American Society for Microbiology Press; 2015.otitidiscaviarum, Nocardia farcinica,  and Nocardia brasiliensis.2 Some 
more recently described or reclassified species have been reported to 
cause human infection. They include Nocardia paucivorans  (Nocardia 
brevicatena/paucivorans complex2,10), Nocardia africana,11 Nocardia 
veterana12 (N. nova complex2), Nocardia wallacei , and Nocardia black -
lockiae (N. transvalensis  complex).13 The terminology “ N. asteroides  spp. 
complex” is no longer used because it encompasses such a heterogenous group of organisms.
ECOLOGY AND EPIDEMIOLOGY
Nocardia  spp. are ubiquitous environmental saprophytes, occurring in 
soil, organic matter, and aquatic habitats, including in waste-water systems.
1,2 Human infection usually arises from direct inoculation of 
the skin or soft tissues or by inhalation. N. brasiliensis  is the commonest 
cause of mycetoma due to nocardial infection in immunocompetent hosts reported from tropical regions of the southern United States, Mexico, Central and South America, and Australia. Worldwide, respira -
tory and disseminated infections occur predominately in immunosup -
pressed hosts, and although species distribution varies with geographic region, infections are most often due to N. cyriacigeorgica, N. nova, N, 
abscessus , N. brasiliensis, and N. farcinica.
1,2,14,15
Nocardia  spp. are well-recognized causes of infection in animals, 
with bovine mastitis being the most common.2 There are no reports of 
animal-to-human transmission nor of person-to-person transmission. However, clusters of invasive nocardiosis acquired by patients in oncology and transplantation units, presumed to be associated with inhalation of contaminated air or dust, have been described.
2 Transmission via 
the hands of staff or contaminated fomites appeared likely in one outbreak.
2 Hospital construction work may have been a risk factor in 
separate clusters of postsurgical wound infections due to Nocardia  spp.2,16 
Cases of indwelling intravenous (IV) line–associated bloodstream 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3062Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
bilayer composed of inner-leaflet mycolic acids and assorted noncova -
lently bound outer-layer glycolipids. A substantial proportion of the 
cell wall mass is composed of peptidoglycan.26 Mycolic acid polymers 
are found in many actinomycetes, including Nocardia  spp., and are 
associated with virulence.27 Outer-layer lipids induce production of 
proinflammatory cytokines IL-1 β and IL-6 by macrophages and are 
likely to be responsible for the powerful granulomatous reaction to N. 
brasiliensisis  infection ,28 but they are also implicated in the immunosup -
pressive microenvironment generated later.29
Nocardia  spp. contain no cell wall lipopolysaccharide, exopolysac -
charide capsule, or surface fimbriae. Strain-dependent specific adhesins and invasive properties influence the outcome of infection in animal models.
30,31 Specific toxins, including hemolysins and proteases, have 
been identified, but these are not thought to be widespread or particularly significant virulence factors.
22,32,33 Highly pathogenic members of the 
N. asteroides  complex secrete superoxide dismutase into growth media, 
whereas nonpathogenic Nocardia  spp. do not.34 Catalases, superoxide 
dismutase, and two types of putative determinants of mammalian cell entry, secreted siderophores and toxins, are present in the genomes of pathogenic Nocardia .
35
Host Cell–Nocardia Interactions
Virulent strains of N. asteroides are relatively resistant to neutrophil-
mediated killing.36 Patients with specific defects in the phagocyte oxidative 
burst (e.g., chronic granulomatous disease)14,25 or with anti–GM-CSF 
neutralizing antibodies in their serum may be more vulnerable to this infection.
24
Virulent Nocardia  inhibit phagosome-lysosome fusion more suc -
cessfully in vitro,37 giving rise to cell wall–deficient forms (L-forms) 
that persist within macrophages.38 Such forms (“filterable Nocardia ”) 
are readily cultured from in vitro broth filtrates, especially when supple -
mented with erythrocytes,39 and L-forms have been isolated from animal 
infections.40,41
Ciliated epithelia appear relatively resistant to invasion by Nocardia  
spp. However, a range of susceptible lung- and airway-associated cell types has been observed in rat models.
31 Tropism for cerebral tissue is 
evident experimentally, but neuroinvasiveness and macrophage penetra -
tion vary significantly between strains. Electron microscopic studies of infected macrophage and astrocytoma-derived or astrocytoma-related cell lines suggest that the penetration competence of invasive N. asteroides  
spp. complex is localized to the bacterial apex.
32 Specific lectins have 
been shown to determine site specificity in the murine brain,32 intrinsic 
differences in expression of which may contribute to variations in host susceptibility.
42
Biofilms
Although IV catheter–associated bloodstream infections are rare in clinical practice, nocardiae promote heavy growth of biofilms, both on the surface of central venous catheter segments in vitro and in a biofilm model.
17 When embedded in such a matrix, the organisms are resistant 
to antimicrobial drugs unless exposed to very high local concentra -
tions, such as can be achieved with intraluminal antimicrobial lock  
therapy.17
CLINICAL EPIDEMIOLOGY
Nocardia Species and  Disease Associations
Members of the former N. asteroides spp. complex are responsible for 
about 80% of noncutaneous invasive disease and for most systemic 
and central nervous system (CNS) disease.22,43 N. farcinica is also an 
important pathogen, notable for its relatively greater resistance to antibiotics. There is also evidence from mouse models that it may be more virulent than other Nocardia  spp.
44 N. brasiliensis is the most often 
reported cause of cutaneous and lymphocutaneous disease, particularly in tropical areas. N. pseudobrasiliensis, a species now separated from N. brasiliensis, appears to be associated with disseminated, including CNS, infections.
1,45 Pulmonary disease is the most frequent presentation 
of nocardiosis caused by the less common pathogens N. transvalensis46 
and N. otitidiscavarum,22 although both may cause severe cutaneous 
infection.47 Superficial nocardiosis after implantation is not necessarily infection, mostly due to members of the N. asteroides spp. complex or 
N. nova, have been reported occasionally in immunosuppressed patients.17 
A community cluster of N. cyriacigeorgica infection associated with 
unlicensed cosmetic procedures has also been described.18 In a recent 
study, hospital environmental reservoirs of Nocardia , including dust on 
window frames and equipment and potable water sources were described.
19 Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis,16 random amplification of 
polymorphic DNA fingerprinting,20 and multilocus sequence typing18 
have been used to confirm clusters and define common sources.
PATHOLOGY
Sections of tissues infected with Nocardia  usually show an acute pyogenic 
inflammatory reaction. Gram stains (Fig. 253.1) of specimens may reveal branching, beaded, filamentous bacteria, similar to those seen in smears taken from cultures, within abscesses. “Sulfur granules” (bacterial macrocolonies), similar to those seen in actinomycosis, may be found 
in nocardial mycetomas. Nocardia  spp. usually stain acid-fast in tissue 
sections if a method such as that of Fite-Faraco is used, whereas 
Actinomyces  spp. do not.
1
PATHOGENESIS
Disease manifestations of nocardiosis are determined by the portal of entry, tissue tropism, growth rates in vivo, ability to survive phagocyte attack, the nature of the host immune reaction, and the characteristics of the infecting strain.
Immune Response to Nocardia Infection
After IV inoculation into mice, virulent Nocardia  are cleared from the 
blood within a few hours and localize in a number of organs (lung, brain, kidneys, liver, and spleen). Innate immune function is important in the initial response to infection. In an intranasal mouse model of pulmonary nocardiosis, effective clearance was dependent on early 
neutrophil recruitment initiated by interleukin-17 (IL-17) production 
by γδT lymphocytes.
21 Early neutrophil mobilization appears to retard 
the process until lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity and activated macrophages effect a definitive response.
22,23 In human infection Nocardia -
induced granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) production may also be a key cytokine response mediator.
24 Protective 
immune responses to Nocardia  spp. are primarily T-cell–mediated. 
Nocardiosis is more problematic in patients with impaired cell-mediated immunity, eliciting little in the way of an effective humoral response.
22 
Healing is associated with strong, sustained rises in interferon- γ (IFN- γ) 
in animal models, and IFN- γ may have a therapeutic role in humans 
with chronic granulomatous disease.25
Specific Virulence Determinants
The nocardial envelope of the Corynebacterineae suborder, which includes Mycobacterium  spp. and Nocardia  spp., is an asymmetrical 
FIG. 253.1  Pulmonary nocardiosis. Photomicrograph of direct Gram-
stained smear from a patient with pulmonary nocardiosis, showing typical 
branching rods. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3063Chapter 253  Nocardia  Species
Pulmonary Disease
Pulmonary disease is the predominant clinical presentation of nocardiosis 
and is acquired through inhalation of organisms from the environ -
ment.15,22 Any species may cause lung infection, although the most 
common are N. cyriacigeorgica, N. nova, and N. farcinica. Onset of 
symptoms may be subacute or chronic and include one or more of productive or nonproductive cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, and fever and other systemic symptoms. In patients with malignancy, radiologically 
evident pulmonary infiltrates commonly herald the presence of nocar -
diosis.
57 Established infection may include endobronchial inflammatory 
masses, pneumonia, lung abscess, and cavitary disease with contigu-
ous extension to surface and deep structures, including effusion and  
empyema.
Radiologic Manifestations of  
Pulmonary Nocardiosis
These include irregular nodules (usually cavitating when large), reticu -
lonodular or diffuse pneumonic infiltrates, and pleural effusions (Fig. 253.3). High-resolution computed tomography (CT) of pulmonary lesions most often shows them to be dense, well-circumscribed nodules or masses, often with central cavitation. Interlobar septal thickening 
around the lesion or ground-glass infiltrates may also be seen.
58 The 
“halo sign, ” considered characteristic of aspergillosis in neutropenic 
patients, has been described. Progressive fibrotic disease may develop in the immunocompetent host, and diagnosis is often difficult. Pulmonary nocardiosis may occasionally complicate advanced human immuno -
deficiency virus (HIV) infection (most commonly when the CD4 count is <200/mm
3), where it often presents with alveolar infiltrates that progress 
during therapy rather than as cavitary disease.59
Differential Diagnosis of  
Pulmonary Nocardiosis
Nocardiosis should always be considered in the differential diagnosis of indolent pulmonary disease, particularly in the setting of cellular immune compromise, along with other actinomycetes (e.g., mycobacteria, Actinomyces  spp.) and fungi (e.g., Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus  
spp.). Pneumonia may have subacute presentation, resembling staphy -
lococcal pneumonia. Clues to a nocardial etiology include spread to contiguous structures, especially with soft tissue swelling or external fistulae, and to the CNS. Invasive diagnostic procedures, including bronchoalveolar lavage for pneumonia, should be considered early in the immunocompromised host because disease may be rapidly progres -
sive; in patients with severe immunodeficiency, coexisting pathology with similar clinical characteristics (e.g., aspergillosis, tuberculosis, malignancy) is well documented.
60
Central Nervous System Nocardiosis
CNS involvement was recognized in greater than 44% of cases of all systemic nocardiosis in an early survey
22 compared with 4% to 33% in associated with compromised cell-mediated immunity but may progress to disseminated disease in that setting.
47
Immunocompromise as a Risk Factor  
for Nocardiosis
Immunocompromise is a well-established risk factor for nocardiosis. Nocardia  spp. may therefore be considered as opportunistic pathogens, 
which cause serious and disseminated disease in settings such as organ transplantation and lymphoreticular neoplasia. The relative risk for progressive disease reflects the level of immunosuppression. A compila -
tion of more than 1000 randomly selected cases from the literature in the early 1990s showed that greater than 60% of all reported cases of nocardiosis were associated with preexisting immune compromise, ranging from alcoholism and diabetes to chronic granulomatous disease, organ transplantation, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
22 In a recent northern Australian study, greater than one-third 
(36%) of patients with nocardiosis were immuncompromised.43 Among 
recipients of solid-organ transplants with nocardiosis, significant risk factors include receipt of high-dose corticosteroids at time of onset, cytomegalovirus disease within the preceding 6 months, high serum trough levels of calcineurin inhibitors within the preceding 30 days, 
use of tacrolimus, patient age, and length of stay in the intensive care 
unit postoperatively.
15,48 Use of low-dose trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 
(TMP-SMX) for Pneumocystis  prophylaxis, such as one double-strength 
tablet twice a week, did not prevent nocardiosis in either solid-organ or hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients.
48–50 Break -
through nocardiosis remains susceptible to TMP-SMX.49 The use of 
anti–tumor necrosis factor- α agents has been associated with dissemi -
nated nocardial infections.51,52 Although cases of nocardiosis have been 
described in patients with AIDS, the overall incidence is low and not fully explained by the use of sulfonamide prophylaxis against Pneumo -
cystis jirovecii  pneumonia.
53
Chronic Lung Disease as a Risk Factor  
for Nocardiosis
Persons with chronic lung disorders, such as pulmonary alveolar proteinosis, and almost any condition requiring long-term corticosteroid use are also at risk. Other chronic airway conditions that may predispose to colonization with Nocardia,  with the potential, albeit low, for sub-
sequent infection include cystic fibrosis (CF) and non-CF bronchiectasis. 
In one study the incidence of nocardiosis among patients with bron -
chiectasis rose significantly between 1996 and 2013.
54
CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS
Primary Cutaneous Nocardiosis
Primary cutaneous nocardiosis may manifest as superficial cellulitis or 
abscess, lymphocutaneous (spirotrichoid) infection, or mycetoma. Unlike other forms of nocardiosis, this usually develops in immunocompetent hosts.
55 Superficial infection often follows relatively trivial inoculation 
injuries (Fig. 253.2), which may vary from insect and animal bites to puncture wounds and contaminated abrasions. The lymphocutane-
ous form includes a rare variant, cervicofacial nocardiosis, which is associated with prominent localized lymphadenitis.
56 Members of the 
former N. asteroides complex more commonly cause superficial infec -
tions, whereas N. brasiliensis is the most common cause of progressive 
cutaneous and lymphocutaneous disease.22 Because the initial response 
to Nocardia  is pyogenic, localized skin lesions may initially be treated 
as staphylococcal or streptococcal in origin; however, nocardial disease is usually more indolent. In advanced disease a mycetoma can develop with sinus tract formation. Mycetomas are a chronically progressive, 
destructive disease, occurring days to months after inoculation, and are 
typically located distally on the limbs. Eumycetoma (of fungal etiology) and actinomycetoma (due to actinomycetes) are equally prominent in the literature, the epidemiology varying with geographic location (see Chapter 261). Overall, Streptomyces  and Actinomadura  spp. appear to 
be of equal or greater importance than Nocardia  spp. as causative agents 
of actinomycetoma. Suppurative granulomas, progressive fibrosis and necrosis, sinus formation with destruction of adjacent structures, and macroscopically visible infective granules (grains) are regular features 
of nocardial mycetoma.
FIG. 253.2  Skin lesions.  Nocardial skin lesions due to direct inoculation 
in an immunosuppressed landscape gardener. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3064Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
FIG. 253.4  Brain abscess.  Magnetic resonance image showing Nocardia  
brain abscess. 
FIG. 253.5  Skin lesion.  Skin lesion from disseminated Nocardia farcinica  
infection. 
AB
FIG. 253.3  Pulmonary nodules.  Multiple pulmonary nodules, demonstrated by computed tomography (A) and chest radiograph (B), in an immunosup -
pressed patient with disseminated nocardiosis. 
paucity of clinical and laboratory signs of inflammation; silent invasion 
and persistence make diagnosis and management more difficult.14,22 
Tissue diagnosis of a cerebral mass in the setting of proven pulmonary nocardiosis is not always necessary.
14 However, cerebral biopsy or 
aspiration should be considered early in the immunocompromised patient because of the higher incidence of serious coexisting pathology and a more aggressive course than that ascribed traditionally to cerebral nocardiosis. N. farcinica has a particular association with CNS (and 
skin) disease.
48,57
Disseminated Nocardiosis
Disseminated infection is characterized by sites widespread abscess formation. The most commonly reported sites include the CNS (see earlier) and eye (particularly the retina), skin and subcutaneous tissues, kidneys, joints, bone, and heart (Fig. 253.5). Occasional cases of IV catheter–associated bacteremia have also been reported. Bacteremia is 
uncommon. N. nova was the predominant bloodstream pathogen in 
cancer patients and recipients of HSCT.
49,57more recent series.48,57,61 Clinical manifestations usually result from local 
effects of granulomas or abscesses in the brain and, less commonly, the 
spinal cord or meninges (Fig. 253.4). These include headache, focal neurologic signs, seizures, confusion, and depressed consciousness. Multiple brain lesions are common. CNS nocardiosis should always be 
considered in patients with pulmonary or disseminated disease. Indeed, 
clinically silent brain abscess is sufficiently common that cerebral imaging, preferably magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), should be performed routinely in such cases.
48,49 Isolated CNS disease can also occur.17,62,63 
Insidious presentations are often mistaken for neoplasia because of the 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3065Chapter 253  Nocardia  Species
their inability to differentiate between members of the N. asteroides 
and N. nova complexes or to identify newly described species.1,2 Molecular 
testing and MALDI-TOF MS can be used to identify Nocardia  to a 
genus or species level and, where necessary, isolates should be referred 
to a reference laboratory.
Identification of Nocardia Species
Molecular techniques can provide definitive identification of most Nocardia  isolates and recognize new species. An accurate species 
identification allows the prediction of antimicrobial susceptibilities in many cases.
1 Polymerase chain reaction–amplified DNA can be character -
ized, analyzed, and compared with archived sequences. Although sequencing of the first 500 to 606 base pairs (bp) of the 5′ end of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene contains sufficient sequence variability for species identification,
2,5,6 sequence analysis of longer gene fragments 
(e.g., 999–1400  b p) is necessary to distinguish between closely related 
species, most notably N. abscessus /N. asiatica /N. arthritidis, N. africana /N. 
elegans, and N. veterana.5 Although guidelines of the Clinical and 
Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) recommend that greater than 99.6% similarity is needed for species identification, Conville and associates
1,71 recommend greater than 99.8% homology to differentiate 
between some species, including those within the N. nova complex.
Although housekeeping gene sequences, such as hsp65, secA1, gyrB, 
rpoB,  and sodA,  can improve phylogenetic resolution,1,72,73 the accuracy 
of species identification is also dependent on the quality of sequences in gene repositories,
74 and inaccuracies have been found in public 
databases.75 Thus comparison with sequences of well-characterized 
type strains of a species and/or with those in a curated database (e.g., the SmartGene [SmartGene GMbH, Zug, Switzerland]) is necessary for correct identification. Errors may also arise because multiple but different 16S rRNA genes are present in certain Nocardia  spp., such 
as N. nova.
74–76 Multiple copies of the gyrB and rpoB  genes have also 
been identified.77
Multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) is a molecular identification 
technique that uses concatenated sequences from a number of gene targets to clarify the phylogenetic relationships of closely related species.
1 
This is regarded as a more effective method of identification, as single-gene targets may be susceptible to recombination, gene transfer, and stochastic variation.
77 MLSA has been useful for the identification of 
known Nocardia  spp. and demonstrated the clustering of previously 
uncharacterized clinical isolates.4,77–79 Although whole-genome analysis 
of clinical isolates would be the gold standard in terms of Nocardia  
identification and allow the detection of resistance genes, current limita -
tions to routine laboratory usage include cost, access to next-generation sequencing, and the need to manipulate and analyze large datasets.
80
MALDI-TOF MS compares the spectra produced by bacterial proteins 
with a library generated from well-characterized organisms, allowing rapid identification. In a European study, performed after optimization of the spectral library, MALDI-TOF MS identified 91% of 171 isolates Keratitis
Nocardia  keratitis is well described in Asia and has been reported in 
travelers returning from Asia.62,64 Although uncommon in most parts 
of the world, the entity is increasingly recognized, largely due to the availability of molecular diagnostic methods in many laboratories (see later). It is an aggressive ocular infection, typically after corneal trauma or minor surgical procedures to the eye. If the diagnosis is delayed, the 
infection can lead to corneal scarring.
62 Although the most commonly 
identified agents are from the former N. asteroides complex and N. 
brasiliensis , a broad range of species have now been implicated.63 With 
appropriate therapy, keratitis resolves with good visual outcomes.62
Colonization
Occasional instances of transient colonization of the respiratory tract 
and skin by Nocardia  spp. have been reported and appear to represent 
aerosol contamination or soil-derived contamination. Colonization of the sputum may be found in patients with underlying pulmonary pathology (e.g., bronchiectasis) or cystic fibrosis who are not receiving 
steroid therapy and requires no specific therapy. To be considered 
significant, Nocardia  should be visible on Gram or modified acid-fast 
stain, produce a pure or predominant growth in culture, and be isolated repeatedly from clinical specimens. However, the extent to which spontaneously resolving or subclinical pulmonary infection occurs in the population is ill-defined, and at least one leading authority warns against dismissing positive sputum cultures as harmless.
22 The isolation 
of Nocardia  from any site in an immunocompromised patient must 
never be ignored and should prompt appropriate investigations for invasive infection.
LABORATORY DIAGNOSIS
Nocardia  spp. are most frequently isolated from respiratory secretions, 
abscess aspirates, and biopsy specimens. In pulmonary nocardiosis the diagnostic yield is increased by testing repeated sputum specimens, bronchoalveolar lavage, and biopsies.
1 For cutaneous nocardiosis, tissue 
biopsies are preferred for culture.1 Specimens should be transported in 
sterile containers, and the microbiology laboratory should always be informed when nocardiosis is suspected, as the diagnosis may be missed by routine laboratory methods.
Direct smears from such specimens typically show gram-positive, 
beaded, fine, right-angled branching filaments ( <
1 µm diameter). Fila -
ments may fragment to form rods and cocci of varying sizes. They are characteristically acid fast by methods such as the modified Kinyoun technique.
2 Nocardiae  can be identified directly from clinical specimens 
using nucleic acid tests,65,66 which may be particularly useful when there 
has been preexisting antimicrobial therapy or when biopsy specimens have been embedded in paraffin for histopathology.
Standard blood culture media support the growth of nocardiae, but 
prolonged incubation (up to 2 weeks) and blind subcultures may be 
required for their detection.
1 Bacteremia, as demonstrated by positive 
blood cultures, is rare in patients with nocardiosis.2 In general, Nocardia  
spp. will grow on nonselective media used routinely for culture of bacteria, fungi, and mycobacteria. However, in specimens containing mixed flora 
(e.g., respiratory secretions), Nocardia  colonies are easily obscured by 
those of more rapidly growing bacteria, and the yield is increased by use of selective media, such as Thayer-Martin agar with antibiotics
67 or 
paraffin agar.68 Buffered charcoal-yeast extract medium, which is com -
monly used for selective growth of Legionella  spp., may also be used 
for the isolation of Nocardia  spp. from respiratory specimens.69 Decon -
tamination methods used for mycobacterial culture are too harsh for Nocardia  spp. and may substantially reduce the numbers of viable 
organisms present in the specimen.
70
Growth of Nocardia  spp. on solid media take 48 hours to 14 days, 
but typical colonies are usually seen after 3 to 5 days. They appear as either buff or pigmented, waxy, cerebriform colonies (Fig. 253.6) or have a dry, chalky-white appearance if aerial hyphae are produced.
1 
They have a characteristic earthy odor. Smears from cultures often show greater fragmentation of filaments than direct smears from clinical  
specimens.
Presumptive Nocardia  isolates were previously classified on the basis 
of biochemical tests that were relatively expensive, slow, and limited by 
FIG. 253.6  Culture. Typical colonies of Nocardia spp. growing on selective 
media. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3066Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
lack of standardized interlaboratory proficiency testing programs.87,91 For 
these reasons, referral of isolates to a specialized reference laboratory is 
recommended in the following circumstances: if local susceptibility testing is performed and yields data contrary to that expected from published literature, for patients with deep-seated or disseminated infection, for 
patients intolerant of treatment with TMP-SMX, and for those who fail 
therapy or relapse after therapy. Isolates of newly described species and of Nocardia  spp. known to be more inherently resistant should also be 
considered for susceptibility testing in a reference laboratory.
86,91
Antimicrobial Regimens
Sulfonamides, most recently in the form of TMP-SMX, have been the mainstay of therapy for Nocardia  infection since their introduction in 
the 1940s and have substantially improved outcomes. In cases of dis -
seminated (including CNS) disease and in immunosuppressed patients, mortality rates with sulfonamide monotherapy are greater than 50%,
92–94 
and combination antimicrobial therapy is recommended. This should be commenced empirically pending susceptibility results. Amikacin combined with imipenem or meropenem, or three-drug regimens consisting of TMP-SMX, amikacin, and a carbapenem or third-generation 
cephalosporin, have been used for high-risk patients.
14,15 Increasing 
experience with linezolid suggests it is effective in combination with 
the above agents and may have a useful role in initial empirical manage -
ment of disseminated or CNS Nocardia  infection pending susceptibility 
results.92–94 TMP-SMX, linezolid, carbapenems, and ceftriaxone may be 
preferred to amikacin-containing regimens in solid-organ transplant populations because of the high incidence of renal impairment in this group.
15 Other agents that have been used in combination regimens 
include broad-spectrum quinolones, minocycline, and tigecycline.
Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole
TMP-SMX, available in the fixed ratio of 1  :  5, i s the sulfonamide 
preparation preferred for management of Nocardia  infection. Synergistic 
activity between the two drug components has been demonstrated against the majority of Nocardia  spp. in vitro,
95,96 giving this formulation 
an advantage over older sulfonamide agents, such as sulfadiazine and sulfisoxazole. Although it is not known whether synergy occurs in vivo, optimal ratios of TMP to SMX for demonstration of synergy in vitro 
vary from less than 1  :  5 to 1  :  10.96,100 Drug levels in serum and CSF are 
estimated to reach 1  :  2095 and 1  :  7 o r less in tissues and pus, including 
cerebral abscesses.96,97
The recommended dose of TMP-SMX in adults with normal renal 
function and localized disease is 5 to 10  m g/kg/day TMP and 25 to 
50 m g/kg/day SMX given in two to four divided doses, depending on 
extent of disease.96 Although use of 5  m g/kg/day (TMP component), 
together with surgical débridement, is considered sufficient for effective to the species level and 6% to the genus level; species were confirmed by molecular testing.
81 In a multicenter trial the use of three combined 
libraries resulted in identification at species level in 84% and at genus level in 6%.
3 Reextraction of specimens with a low MALDI-TOF MS 
identification score (< 2.0) and modification of extraction methods have 
also improved identification.3,82 In two studies, where in-house libraries 
were developed, identification to species level was made in 95% and 90.6% of isolates and to genus level in an additional 5% and 9.4%, respectively.
4,82 A strategy for improved Nocardia  identification would 
be to use MALDI-TOF MS technology for rapid identification of the majority of isolates and, when identification is uncertain, perform nucleic acid–based molecular identification.
82
MANAGEMENT
Antimicrobial Selection
Successful management of Nocardia  infection requires the use of 
antimicrobial drugs, often in combination, and, where appropriate, 
surgical drainage or débridement. As there are no randomized trials to determine optimal regimens, recommendations are based on retrospective and observational data, animal studies, in vitro susceptibility profiles, 
and expert opinion.
Initial selection of a therapeutic regimen should be based on the 
species of Nocardia , the site and severity of infection, the host immune 
status, and potential drug interactions or toxicity. As clinical isolates 
of Nocardia  exhibit variable resistance to antimicrobial agents, antimi -
crobial susceptibility testing is advised. Although there is a lack of data directly correlating in vitro susceptibility with clinical outcome, with the exception of CNS disease,
83 therapy based on in vitro susceptibility 
is often effective.
In Vitro Susceptibility Testing
The CLSI has approved broth microdilution methods for antimicrobial susceptibility testing of aerobic actinomycetes and has set interpretive breakpoints for commonly used antimicrobials.
84 Other available methods 
include the E-test (AB Biodisk; Solna, Sweden) and BACTEC radiometric methods. Both correlate well with broth microdilution results and are easier to use in the routine clinical laboratory.
85
Susceptibility profiles for commonly isolated Nocardia  spp. are 
summarized in Table 253.3 . Although resistance patterns can be predicted 
for some Nocardia  spp., geographic variability has been reported, and 
new species for which susceptibility data is lacking continue to be identified.
86
Discrepancies in susceptibility testing between laboratories have also 
been well-documented, particularly with testing of TMP-SMX.86–90 These 
are largely due to technical issues inherent in broth microdilution meth -
odology and include inoculum preparation, end-point determination, and 
TABLE 253.3  Antimicr obial Susceptibility of Selected Nocardia Species78,86,88,91,116,121,122,163,164
N. cyriacigeorgica N. farcinica N. nova complexN. transvalensis 
complex N. brasiliensis
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 
(TMP-SMX)S SaS S S
Amoxicillin clavulanate R S R V (0%–53% R) S
Ceftriaxone S R V (25%–53% R) V (15%–37% R) V (13%–66% R)
Imipenem V (3%–57% R) V (4%–67% R) S R R
Amikacin S S S R S
Linezolid S S S S S
Moxifloxacin R S,?VbR S S
Clarithromycin R R S R R
Minocycline V (15%–95% R) R V (44%–88% R) R V (23%–76% R)
Tigecycline V R V ND S
aRecent studies suggest resistance rates of 0.5%–6% to TMP-SMX in N. farcinica;  however, rates of 45% have been described in Spain.
bGenerally active with variable resistance in some reports.
ND, No data; R, generally inactive; S, generally active (some isolates may be resistant); V, variable resistance in vitro (published ranges in parentheses).
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3067Chapter 253  Nocardia  Speciesototoxicity and nephrotoxicity makes its use problematic in many risk 
groups that have underlying poor renal function.
Limited data are available on the use of alternative carbapenems 
(meropenem, ertapenem) in Nocardia  infection. Meropenem is clinically 
appealing as it is associated with a lower incidence of seizures compared 
with imipenem, achieves good CSF penetration, and is active in vitro 
activity against several Nocardia  spp.110,115 Of note, susceptibility of 
Nocardia  isolates to meropenem cannot be inferred from susceptibility 
to imipenem. Imipenem appears to be the most active carbapenem in vitro against N. farcinica and N. otidiscaviarum ,
110,115 whereas 
meropenem has demonstrated more activity than imipenem in vitro against N. abscessus  and the N. transvalensis complex.
110 Ertapenem 
demonstrates poor activity against Nocardia  spp. generally, although 
some have observed that N. nova isolates may be susceptible to all carbapenems, including ertapenem in vitro.
110 A single study of 51 
isolates of Nocardia  spp. concluded that overall meropenem is 4 
times less active and ertapenem 16 times less active than imipenem against the species tested.
116 Published reports of the use and efficacy 
of meropenem in nocardiosis have been in the setting of combination  
therapy.15,117–119
Third-Generation Cephalosporins
The third-generation cephalosporins ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, and cefuroxime exhibit in vitro activity against a variety of Nocardia  spp., 
but N. farcinica isolates are typically resistant, and variable levels of 
resistance have been demonstrated in isolates of the N. transvalensis 
complex, N. pseudobrasiliensis, and N. otidiscaviarum . Greater than 
10% of isolates of N. brasiliensis and the N. nova  complex are resistant 
to ceftriaxone in vitro (see Table 253.3). Synergy between cefotaxime and imipenem has been demonstrated against susceptible strains of Nocardia  in a murine model of cerebral Nocardia  infection, where the 
combination of cefotaxime and imipenem was more effective at reducing colony counts at 72 hours than either agent given alone.
120 Synergistic 
activity has also been described in vitro between cefuroxime and amikacin.
113
Oxazolidinones: Linezolid and Tedizolid
The oxazolidinone linezolid exhibits excellent in vitro activity against all known species of Nocardia .
86,121,122 and has excellent oral bioavailability 
and good CNS penetration.123 Increasing clinical experience suggests 
that it is efficacious when used in combination with another anti- Nocardia  
agent92–94,124; however, its toxicity profile precludes long-term usage. 
When given for more than 14 days, linezolid is associated with an increased risk of hematologic toxicity,
125 lactic acidosis, retrobulbar optic 
neuritis, peripheral neuropathy, and the serotonin syndrome. There is some evidence that therapeutic drug monitoring of plasma linezolid levels may reduce the incidence of toxicity; however, results are conflicting.
126–128 In 18 cases of solid-organ transplant recipients treated 
for Nocardia  infection, in whom 17 of 18 received TMP-SMX and 15 
of 18 received linezolid, the median duration of therapy with linezolid was 21 days.
94 Ten of the 15 (67%) ceased linezolid due to adverse 
events; thrombocytopenia was noted in 14 of 15 (93%) and anemia in 9 of 15 (60%). However, these rates were similar to those in patients who did not receive linezolid.
Given its potential for toxicity, linezolid may not be appropriate for 
long-term therapy of Nocardia  infections. However, it may be useful in 
initial and empirical management of infection or in combination with other agents, particularly when amikacin may not be an option due to nephrotoxicity, while results of susceptibility tests are pending.
Limited available data suggest that tedizolid, a second-generation 
oxazolidinone, has greater efficacy than linezolid in vitro with minimal inhibitory concentrations twofold to threefold lower than linezolid against many Nocardia  spp.
129 Although phase III studies comparing 
tedizolid with linezolid demonstrated a lower incidence of thrombo -
cytopenia with tedizolid (3.2% vs. 5.6%),130 there is insufficient clinical 
experience to recommend its use.131
Minocycline and Amoxicillin-Clavulanate
The most frequently used oral alternatives to sulfonamides include minocycline and amoxicillin-clavulanate. Minocycline has the best in management of primary cutaneous infection,
96 doses of 15  m g/kg/day 
TMP and 75  m g/kg/day SMX are used in severe or extensive infection, 
disseminated infection, cerebral abscess, or AIDS.60,95 Lower doses of 
TMP-SMX have been used successfully to treat infection in some 
immunocompromised patients; for example, 5  m g/kg/day of the TMP 
component given daily in two doses has successfully treated pulmonary infection in renal transplant recipients. In these cases, however, TMP-SMX was usually prescribed as only one component of a combination therapy regimen.
83,99 Lower-dose regimens using 10  m g/kg/day100,101 or less102 of 
the TMP component have also successfully cured cases of cerebral abscess. Dose reduction of TMP-SMX is recommended in renal impairment.
Therapeutic drug monitoring of serum sulfonamide levels may have 
a role where absorption from the gastrointestinal tract is uncertain, in 
patients who require high doses of TMP-SMX and are at risk of dose-
related toxicity (renal failure and bone marrow impairment), and in cases of poor therapeutic response. The recommended therapeutic level of sulfonamide, measured 2 hours after an oral dose at steady state, is 
100 to 150  m g/L103; however, there are minimal data equating sulfonamide 
levels to toxicity or efficacy.98
The decision to use sulfonamides in therapy will in part depend 
on the causative species of Nocardia . Although sulfonamide-resistant 
Nocardia  have been reported (see Table 253.3), resistance of Nocardia  
spp. overall to TMP-SMX appears to be between 2% to 3%.78,86,87 
Alternative antimicrobial agents should be considered in infections caused by Nocardia  demonstrated to be sulfonamide-resistant, in 
patients who are clinically failing sulfonamide therapy, and in those intolerant of sulfonamide-containing regimens due to hypersensitivity 
or toxicity. Sulfonamide intolerance has been reported in 3.4% to 8% 
of exposed non–HIV-infected patients
104,105 and in up to 55% of AIDS 
patients.106 Desensitization to TMP-SMX may be considered for those 
with hypersensitivity, to enable ongoing treatment with sulfonamides. Patients receiving other myelosuppressive agents, such as azathioprine,
107 
or nephrotoxic agents, such as calcineurin inhibitors, are at increased risk of sulfonamide-induced myelotoxicity and nephrotoxicity, respectively.
Other Regimens
The choice of alternative therapeutic agents is based on in vitro sus -
ceptibility data; efficacy in animal models, primarily short-term murine models of pulmonary and cerebral nocardiosis
108,109; and published case 
reports and case series. Assessment of the efficacy of these regimens is complicated by the relative rarity of infection, the diversity of agents that have been used either in combination or sequentially, the variability in host populations studied, and the variable chronic course of Nocardia  
infection.
Amikacin and Carbapenems
Most clinical experience to date has been with amikacin and imipenem. Amikacin exhibits excellent activity in vitro against most species of Nocardia , with the exception of N. amikacinitolerans , N. pseudobrasiliensis , 
and N. transvalensis complex,  with resistance to amikacin demonstrated 
in 57%, 31%, and 72% of isolates, respectively, in one study.
86 Imipenem 
has good in vitro activity against N. nova and many other Nocardia  
spp.; however, resistance has been reported in up to 100% of strains of N. pseudobrasilensis  and N. brasiliensis  and in moderate-to-high numbers 
of isolates within the N. transvalensis complex, N. otididiscaviarum , N. 
farcinica , N. cyricageorgica, and N. abscessus .
86,110 Synergy between 
amikacin and TMP-SMX has been demonstrated in vitro; with imipenem, the effectiveness is primarily additive.
111
Amikacin and imipenem have been successfully used, together 
or in combination with sulfonamides or other agents, in both immunocompromised patients and in patients with Nocardia  infection 
involving different body sites.
15,112,113 In one study cure was achieved 
in seven of eight patients who received amikacin in combination with agents that demonstrated synergy in vitro.
113 Amikacin and imipenem 
in combination have been recommended as initial parenteral therapy in pulmonary Nocardia  infection
114 and in severe infection,14 particularly 
where there may be concerns regarding TMP-SMX susceptibility or toxicity; however, there are no clinical trials to support this approach. Once-daily dosing regimens of amikacin make it attractive for in-home IV therapy programs; however, the potential for amikacin to cause 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3068Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
Surgical Management
The need for surgical management of Nocardia  infection depends on 
the site and extent of disease.
Surgery in Extraneural Nocardiosis
In extraneural infection, indications for aspiration, drainage, or excision 
of abscesses are similar to those for other chronic bacterial infections. Thick-walled, multiloculated abscesses are unlikely to be managed successfully with therapeutic aspiration alone.
147
Surgery in Cerebral Nocardiosis
Surgical management is advised for brain abscesses that are accessible and relatively large, if the patient’s condition deteriorates or lesions progress within 2 weeks of therapy, or when there is no reduction in abscess size within a month.
148 Stereotactic aspiration is useful for 
decompression of cerebral abscesses, but cure is often achieved only after craniotomy and complete excision of the abscess.
147 Small cerebral 
abscesses may be cured by prolonged antimicrobial therapy. As cerebral abscesses can progress despite appropriate therapy, all patients should be monitored with regular cerebral CT scans or MRI. Surgical interven -
tion may be required for successful management of empyemas and 
mediastinal collections. Pericarditis complicating pulmonary Nocardia  
infection is often fatal unless pericardial drainage is performed.
149
Keratitis and Other Eye Infections
Keratitis
In localized Nocardia  keratitis, such as infection after LASIK (laser-
assisted in situ keratomileusis) surgery, topical amikacin (1.5%–2.5% 
solution) has most commonly been used62 due to its activity in vitro 
against Nocardia  spp., its good corneal penetration with high local 
concentrations in the eye, and its safety profile.55 In a series of 111 cases 
of culture-proven Nocardia  keratitis in India, 89.7% of isolates were 
reported as amikacin susceptible.150 Treatment consisted of topical 
amikacin 2.5% eye drops administered hourly with the addition of oral TMP-SMX in cases where response was slow or symptoms worsened; 82% resolved with medical treatment alone. The average duration of treatment for keratitis was 38 days.
Other antimicrobials that have been used topically in Nocardia  
keratitis include TMP-SMX preparations, tobramycin, ciprofloxacin (0.3%), and moxifloxacin (0.5%).
151 Pretreatment of Nocardia  keratitis 
with topical quinolone preparations has been associated with increased resistance to moxifloxacin in Nocardia  spp. in vitro.
152 Topical 
corticosteroids should be used with caution in Nocardia  keratitis. In a 
randomized, placebo-controlled trial comparing topical corticosteroid use with placebo in bacterial keratitis, corticosteroids were associated with worse clinical outcomes at 3 months and with larger scar size at 
12 months in patients with Nocardia  keratitis compared with those who 
did not receive topical prednisolone.
153
The use of systemic (oral or IV) antimicrobial therapy depends on 
the clinical context.
Endophthalmitis
Nocardia  is a rare cause of endophthalmitis, either exogenous from 
surgery or trauma, or, even less commonly, hematogenous. Relatively 
poor outcomes have been noted after use of intravitreal amikacin in patients with Nocardia  endophthalmitis despite susceptibility of the 
causative species to amikacin in vitro (100% and 90%, respectively).
62 
Thus systemic TMP-SMX is usually given. Antimicrobial choice depends on species and results of susceptibility testing (see Table 253.3). Intra-vitreal amikacin carries with it a small risk of macular infarction.
154
Duration of Therapy and Prognosis
Clinical Responses to Therapy
Clinical improvement is generally evident within 3 to 5 days108 or, at 
most, 7 to 10 days after the initiation of effective therapy.101 Parenteral 
therapy can usually be safely changed to an oral regimen after 3 to 6 
weeks, depending on clinical response. Initial high doses of TMP-SMX may also be reduced at this time. Patients with extensive infection, necrotic foci not amenable to surgery, or those who respond slowly 
may benefit from prolongation of parenteral and subsequently oral  
therapy.
14vitro activity of the tetracyclines and has shown efficacy when used 
alone, in combination with other antimicrobials, as sequential therapy, and in patients intolerant of sulfonamides.
132–134 Reports of failure when 
used as monotherapy in immunocompromised patients, however, have also been reported.
135
Amoxicillin-clavulanate has been effective in individual cases when 
used in combination with other agents or as sequential therapy.136,137 It 
may be particularly useful in the treatment of cutaneous infection due to N. brasiliensis , a consistent β
-lactamase producer, and is the preferred 
oral agent for this species in patients who cannot tolerate sulfonamides.138 
A case of acquired resistance to β-lactam and β-lactamase inhibitor 
antibiotics has been described, however, resulting in relapse during therapy of N. brasiliensis  with amoxicillin-clavulanate.
139 Other species 
with susceptibility to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid include N. abscessus  
and N. farcinica.2 The use of amoxicillin-clavulanate should be guided 
by in vitro susceptibility results; demonstration of β-lactamase production 
is not necessarily predictive of resistance to β-lactam drugs, and isolates 
of the N. nova  complex can test ampicillin susceptible/intermediate but 
may be resistant to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.2
Fluoroquinolones, Macrolides,  
and Tigecycline
In vitro susceptibility results should also be used to guide the choice 
of alternative agents for which few clinical data are available, such as the macrolides, fluoroquinolones, and tigecycline. Moxifloxacin demonstrates activity against several Nocardia  spp., including N. 
farcinica , the N. transvalensis complex, N. pseudobrasiliensis, and N. 
brasiliensis , and has greater activity in vitro than ciprofloxacin.
86,140 
Published clinical experience in patients treated with moxifloxacin has mainly been as salvage therapy in infections due to N. far -
cinica , or in combination with other agents or surgical débridement. 
Results have been mixed, with both successful and poor outcomes  
reported.
141,142
Clarithromycin is the macrolide most commonly used for treatment 
of Nocardia  infections and exhibits good activity in vitro against N. 
nova .143 This agent has been used successfully to treat N. nova  infections 
as part of combination therapy, as sequential therapy, and in cases of sulfonamide intolerance.
144,145 Limited in vitro data on use of the IV 
drug tigecycline suggest that it has activity against a variety of Nocardia  
spp., including imipenem-resistant and TMP-SMX–resistant isolates; however, no clinical efficacy data are available.
116,146
Superficial Infection and Mycetoma
Localized or isolated cutaneous disease in the immunocompetent host may be treated with monotherapy. Oral TMP-SMX is preferred; however, other agents, including minocycline, amoxicillin-clavulanate, fluoroquinolones, and macrolides, have been used depending on isolate susceptibility.
Nocardia Intravascular Catheter-Related 
Bloodstream Infection
Nocardia  central line–associated bloodstream infections are rare and 
occur primarily in immunocompromised patients. Early line removal, 
together with combination antimicrobial therapy, is recommended.17
Severe Infection
Empirical Therapy
Although TMP-SMX as monotherapy may be successfully used in mild 
pulmonary infection with no evidence of dissemination, combination antimicrobial therapy with at least two agents is recommended for immunocompromised hosts, those with more than one site of infection not involving the CNS, and any patient with severe pulmonary involve -
ment or isolated CNS disease. Recommended regimens include amikacin and imipenem or meropenem, or amikacin and TMP-SMX. Although two-drug therapy may be suitable in cases of isolated cerebral disease, when additional sites are involved, or infection is life threatening, three-drug regimens that cover all likely pathogenic Nocardia  spp. are 
recommended, for instance, TMP-SMX plus imipenem or meropenem, plus amikacin or ceftriaxone (or linezolid in patients with renal failure). Empirical therapy should be modified after Nocardia  speciation and 
susceptibility results.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3069Chapter 253  Nocardia  Speciesdaily (800  m g SMX component) has been used; however, there are no 
efficacy or outcome data to support this approach.102,116
Clinical Outcomes
The clinical outcome of Nocardia  infection depends on underlying host 
factors, site and extent of disease, the infecting Nocardia  spp., and 
duration of therapy.
Worse outcomes have been reported in immunosuppressed patients 
compared with nonimmunosuppressed patients. A mortality of 70% was 
described in one study of 27 HIV patients with advanced immunosup -
pression; however, all but one patient had received monotherapy for 
their Nocardia  infection.59 Mortality rates of 55% have been reported 
in immunocompromised patients with CNS disease compared with 20% in nonimmunocompromised patients.
148 Nocardia  infection of 
the CNS has been associated with worse outcomes in general when compared with other sites of infection. Mortality rates of 47.8% have been reported in CNS infection compared with 7.6% with pulmonary infection alone.
156 Cure rates of up to 80% were described in disseminated 
disease compared with 60% in CNS disease in another study.95 Isolated 
cutaneous disease generally has a 100% cure rate. Mortality rates are higher in immunocompromised patients with Nocardia  infection than 
in matched controls without Nocardia  infection. A case-control study of 
35 solid-organ transplant recipients demonstrated a 6-month mortality 
rate of 14% compared with 4% in non- Nocardia  control subjects. Cure 
rates of 89% were described in the study regardless of site of infection, 
although those with disseminated infection received prolonged therapy (median, 7.5 months) compared with those with nondisseminated infec -
tion (median, 6 months).
15 A recent case-control study of 117 solid-organ 
transplant recipients showed a mortality rate of 16.2% at 1 year compared with 1.3% in non- Nocardia  control subjects.
119 A multivariate analysis 
of this population revealed that a history of tumor, invasive fungal infection in the preceding 6 months, and donor age were independent risk factors for mortality from Nocardia  infection at 1 year (rather than 
site, dissemination, or antimicrobial regimen). Of interest, a prior episode 
of acute rejection was associated with improved survival from Nocardia  
infection. Exposure to high-dose steroids, cytomegalovirus infection 
in the preceding 6 months, and high median calcineurin levels within 30 days have previously been identified as independent risk factors for the development of Nocardia  infection in organ transplant recipients.
15
Although immunosuppressive therapy increases the risk of pulmonary 
and disseminated nocardiosis in recipients of organ transplants, it is not clear to what extent continuation of immunosuppressive therapy during treatment of nocardiosis has an impact on outcome. Most patients can be cured with appropriate antimicrobial therapy even if immunosup -
pressive drugs are continued, provided that the diagnosis is made early and appropriate full-dose antinocardial therapy is continued for an adequate period of time.
136,160 On the other hand, delay in diagnosis 
and early cessation of therapy have been associated with increased rates of relapse and worse outcomes.
59,96,156
Effect of Nocardia Species on Outcome
Some Nocardia  spp. may be more virulent and associated with worse 
clinical outcomes. Isolates of N. farcinica  were more virulent than other 
species in a mouse model,44 and in a series of 20 microbiologically 
confirmed cases of CNS nocardiosis, 6 of 7 deaths reported at 1 year were attributed to N. farcinica.
162 Multidrug-resistant isolates may also 
be predicted to have worse outcomes, depending on the availability of effective antimicrobial choices.
Summary of Management
The choice and dose of antimicrobial drugs and the duration of therapy depend on the sites and extent of infection, underlying host factors, the species of Nocardia , and the clinical response to initial management. 
TMP-SMX remains the mainstay of therapy. Initial combination therapy is indicated in patients who are immunosuppressed or who present 
with brain involvement or disease involving multiple sites. Oral main -
tenance therapy can be initiated after 4 to 8 weeks, depending on the 
severity of infection and the clinical response. Newer, orally active drugs may be of value as short-term adjunctive or salvage therapy (linezolid), or as salvage or maintenance therapy when supported by susceptibility testing (late-generation quinolones or macrolides).Causes of Therapeutic Failure
Lack of response to initial therapy may be due to primary drug resistance; inadequate penetration of drug into sites of infection (dependent on dose, bioavailability of oral drugs, abscess location and pathology, and 
patient compliance); the presence of a sequestered abscess requiring surgical drainage; and, in an immunocompromised host, overwhelming nocardial infection or a coexisting or secondary opportunistic infection.
Management of Immunosuppressive Drug 
Therapy in Patients With Nocardiosis
Reduction or cessation of immunosuppressive drugs may be required 
if Nocardia  infection is uncontrolled or progressive despite therapeutic 
serum levels of antimicrobial agents.
Duration of Therapy in  
Immunocompetent Hosts
Recommendations for the duration of therapy are empirical and based primarily on reports of relapse after sulfonamide therapy of different durations.
a Isolated cutaneous infection, including sporotrichoid 
nocardiosis and superficial ulcers, can be cured with 1- to 3-month courses of therapy.
96 Prolonged therapy is required in patients with 
mycetoma.147 Immunocompetent patients with pulmonary or systemic 
Nocardia  infection and without CNS involvement should be treated for 
a minimum of 6 months. Those with CNS infection should be treated for 12 months.
14
Duration of Therapy in  
Immunosuppressed Hosts
HIV-negative, immunosuppressed patients with isolated pulmonary disease should be treated for at least 6 months and those with dis -
seminated disease for 6 to 12 months, depending on the degree of immunosuppression and response to therapy. Therapy should be continued for 12 months or longer if there are intercurrent increases 
in immunosuppression (e.g., due to episodes of graft rejection). For 
patients who must be maintained on steroid or cytotoxic therapy after successful treatment of Nocardia  infection, prolonged low-dose, 
maintenance antimicrobial therapy or secondary prophylaxis may be required (see section “ Prophylaxis ”).
In patients with AIDS, early institution of a prolonged primary course 
of antinocardial therapy is essential, as treatment of patients with late presentations or of those with relapsed nocardial infection has usually been unsuccessful.
59 Although secondary prophylaxis has traditionally 
been recommended in patients with AIDS at the completion of Nocardia  
therapy, restoration of the immune system with antiretroviral therapy has been associated in one report with clinical cure of Nocardia  infection 
in the absence of appropriate therapy, suggesting immune restoration 
may abrogate the need for secondary prophylaxis.
157
Short-Course Therapy
Cure of extrapulmonary abscesses has been described in a few cases 
treated with a short course of amikacin (7–8 weeks) with amikacin and 
surgical drainage43,158 or, in a case of cerebral nocardiosis, amikacin 
plus ceftriaxone.159
Prophylaxis
Primary Prophylaxis
Primary prophylaxis against Nocardia  infection is not usually recom -
mended for immunosuppressed patients posttransplantation as the inci -
dence of infection is low. Of note, prophylaxis against P . jirovecii  infection 
is often prescribed in this patient group using TMP-SMX two or three 
times weekly. This regimen does not prevent infection with Nocardia,  
and substantial numbers of patients develop nocardiosis after solid-organ or stem cell transplantation while on such prophylaxis.
15,48,146,160,161
Secondary Prophylaxis
The efficacy of secondary prophylaxis to prevent relapse or recurrence of Nocardia  infection has not been determined. It may be considered for 
patients with persisting immunosuppression, once therapy for Nocardia  
infection is completed. TMP-SMX at a dose of one double-strength tablet 
aReferences 59, 95, 96, 100, 155, 156.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3070Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
Key References
The complete reference list is available online at Expert Consult.
1. Conville PS, Witebsky FG. Nocardia, Rhodococcus, 
Gordonia, Actinomadura, Streptomyces , and other aerobic 
actinomycetes. In: Jorgensen JH, Pfaller MA, Carroll KC, 
et al, eds. Manual of Clinical Microbiology . 11th ed. 
Washington, DC: American Society for Microbiology 
Press; 2015.
2. Brown-Elliott B, Brown JM, Conville P , et al. Clinical and 
laboratory features of the Nocardia  spp. based on current 
molecular taxonomy. Clin Microbiol Rev . 
2006;19:259–282.
3. Blosser SJ, Drake SK, Andrasko JL, et al. Multicenter 
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight 
mass spectrometry study for identification of clinically 
relevant Nocardia  spp. Clin Microbiol . 2016;54:1251–1258.
6. Roth A, Andrees S, Kroppenstedt RM, et al. Phylogeny of 
the genus Nocardia  based on reassessed 16S rRNA gene 
sequences reveals underspeciation and division of strains 
classified as Nocardia  asteroids into three established 
species and two unnamed taxons. J Clin Microbiol . 
2003;41:851–856.
14. Lerner PI. Nocardiosis. Clin Infect Dis . 1996;22:891–905.
15. Peleg AY , Hussain S, Qureshi ZA, et al. Risk factors, 
clinical characteristics, and outcome of Nocardia  infection 
in organ transplant recipients: a matched case-control 
study. Clin Infect Dis . 2007;44:1307–1314.
16. Blumel J, Blumel E, Y assin AF , et al. Typing of Nocardia 
farcinica  by pulsed-field electrophoresis reveals an 
endemic strain as source of hospital infections. J Clin 
Microbiol . 1998;36:118–122.
17. Al Akhrass F , Hachem R, Mohamed J, et al. Central 
venous catheter-associated Nocardia  bacteremia in cancer 
patients. Emerg Infect Dis . 2011;17:1651–1658.
21. Tam S, Maksaereekul S, Hyde DM, et al. IL-17 and γδ 
T-lymphocytes play a critical role in innate immunity 
against Nocardia asteroides  GUH-2. Microbes Infect . 
2012;14:1133–1143.
22. Beaman L, Beaman BL. Nocardia  species: host-parasite 
relationships. Clin Microbiol Rev . 1994;7:213–264.
23. Deem RL, Doughty FA, Beaman BL. Immunologically 
specific direct T lymphocyte-mediated killing of Nocardia 
asteroides . J Immunol . 1983;130:2401–2406.
28. Trevino-Villarreal JH, Vera-Cabrera L, Valero-Guillén PL, 
et al. Nocardia brasiliensis  cell wall lipids modulate 
macrophage and dendritic responses that favor 
development of experimental actinomycetoma in BALB/c 
mice. Infect Immun . 2012;80:3587–3601.
46. McNeil MM, Brown JM, Georghiou PR, et al. Infections 
due to Nocardia transvalensis:  clinical spectrum and 
antimicrobial therapy. Clin Infect Dis . 1992;15:453–463.
48. Coussement J, Lebeaux D, van Delden C, et al. Nocardia  
infection in solid organ transplant recipients: a 
multicenter European case-control study. Clin Infect Dis . 
2016;63:338–345.
49. Shannon K, Pasikhova Y , Ibekweh Q, et al. Nocardiosis 
following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Transpl 
Infect Dis . 2016;18:169–175.50. Shrestha S, Kanellis J, Korman T, et al. Different faces of 
Nocardia  infection in renal transplant recipients. 
Nephrology (Carlton) . 2016;21:254–260.
58. Sato H, Okada F , Mori T, et al. High-resolution computed 
tomography findings in patients with pulmonary 
nocardiosis. Acad Radiol . 2016;23:290–296.
59. Uttamchandani RB, Daikos GL, Reyes RR, et al. 
Nocardiosis in 30 patients with advanced human 
immunodeficiency virus infection: clinical features and 
outcome. Clin Infect Dis . 1994;18:348–353.
62. Lalitha P . Nocardia  keratitis. Curr Opin Ophthalmol . 
2009;20:318–323.
68. Shawar RM, Moore DG, La Rocco MT. Cultivation of 
Nocardia  spp. on chemically defined media for selective 
recovery of isolates from clinical specimens. J Clin 
Microbiol . 1990;28:508–512.
74. Conville PS, Witebsky FG. Analysis of multiple differing 
copies of the 16S rRNA gene in five clinical isolates and 
three type strains of Nocardia  species and implications for 
species assignment. J Clin Microbiol . 2007;45:1146–1151.
77. Tamura T, Matsuzawa T, Oji S, et al. A genome 
sequence-based approach to taxonomy of the genus 
Nocardia . Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek . 2012;102:481–491.
80. Kwong JC, McCallum N, Sintchenko V , et al. Whole 
genome sequencing in clinical and public health 
microbiology. Pathology . 2015;47:199–210.
82. Segawa S, Nishimura M, Sogawa K, et al. Identification of 
Nocardia  species using matrix-assisted laser desorption/
ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Clin 
Proteomics . 2015;12:6.
84. Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI). 
Susceptibility Testing of Mycobacteria, Nocardiae, and 
Other Aerobic Actinomycetes . CLSI Document M24-MA2. 
Wayne, PA: CLSI; 2011.
85. Ambaye A, Kohner PC, Wollan PC, et al. Comparison of 
agar dilution, broth microdilution, disk diffusion, E-test 
and BACTEC radiometric methods for antimicrobial 
susceptibility testing of clinical isolates of the Nocardia 
asteroides  complex. J Clin Microbiol . 1997;35:847–852.
86. Schlaberg R, Fisher MA, Hanson KE. Susceptibility 
profiles of Nocardia  isolates based on current taxonomy. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2014;58:795–800.
87. Brown-Elliott BA, Biehle J, Conville PS, et al. 
Sulfonamide resistance in isolates of Nocardia  spp. from a 
U.S. multicentre survey. J Clin Microbiol . 
2012;50:670–672.
88. Lai CC, Liu WL, Ko WC, et al. Antimicrobial-resistant 
Nocardia  isolates. Taiwan, 1998-2009. Clin Infect Dis . 
2011;52:833.
90. Uhde KB, Pathak S, McCullum I Jr, et al. 
Antimicrobial-resistant Nocardia  isolates, United States, 
1995-2004. Clin Infect Dis . 2010;51:1445–1448.
91. Conville PS, Brown-Elliott BA, Wallace RJ Jr, et al. 
Multisite reproducibility of the broth microdilution 
method for susceptibility testing of Nocardia  species. J 
Clin Microbiol . 2012;50:1270–1280.
92. Jodlowski TZ, Melnychuk I, Conry J. Linezolid for the 
treatment of Nocardia  spp. infections. Ann Pharmacother . 
2007;41:1694–1699.95. Smego RA Jr, Moeller MB, Gallis HA. Trimethoprim-  
sulfamethoxazole therapy for Nocardia  infections. Arch 
Intern Med . 1983;143:711–718.
96. Wallace RJ Jr, Septimus EJ, Williams TW Jr, et al. Use of 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for treatment of 
infections due to Nocardia . Rev Infect Dis . 
1982;4:315–325.
97. Maderazo EG, Quintiliani R. Treatment of nocardial 
infection with trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole. Am J 
Med . 1974;57:671–675.
100. Byrne E, Brophy BP , Perrett LV . Nocardia  cerebral abscess: 
new concepts in diagnosis, management, and prognosis. J 
Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry . 1979;42:1038–1045.
102. Wilson JP , Turner HR, Kirchner KA, et al. Nocardial 
infections in renal transplant recipients. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1989;68:38–57.
103. McNeil MM, Brown JM, Hutwagner LC, et al. Evaluation 
of therapy for Nocardia asteroides  complex infections. 
Infect Dis Clin Pract . 1995;4:287–292.
108. Gombert ME, Aulicino TM, duBouchet L, et al. Therapy 
of experimental cerebral nocardiosis with imipenem, 
amikacin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and 
minocycline. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1986;30:  
270–273.
110. Brown-Elliott BA, Killingley J, Vasireddy S, et al. In vitro 
comparison of ertapenem, meropenem, and imipenem 
against isolates of rapidly growing mycobacteria and 
Nocardia  by use of broth microdilution and etest. J Clin 
Microbiol . 2016;54:1586–1592.
112. Choucino C, Goodman SA, Greer JP , et al. Nocardial 
infections in bone marrow transplant recipients. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1996;23:1012–1019.
115. Y azawa K, Mikami Y , Ohashi S, et al. In-vitro activity of 
new carbapenem antibiotics: comparative studies with 
meropenem, L-627 and imipenem against pathogenic 
Nocardia  spp. J Antimicrob Chemother . 1992;29:169–172.
116. Cercenado E, Marin M, Sanchez-Martinez M, et al. In 
vitro activities of tigecycline and eight other 
antimicrobials against different Nocardia  species 
identified by molecular methods. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2007;51:1102–1104.
147. Lopes CF . Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in the 
treatment of actinomycotic mycetoma by Nocardia 
brasiliensis . Folha Med . 1996;73:89–92.
148. Mamelak AN, Obana WG, Flaherty JF , et al. Nocardial 
brain abscess: treatment and factors influencing outcome. 
Neurosurgery . 1994;35:622–631.
150. DeCroos FC, Garg P , Reddy AK, et al; Hyderabad 
Endophthalmitis Research Group. Optimizing diagnosis 
and management of Nocardia  keratitis, scleritis, and 
endophthalmitis: 11-year microbial and clinical overview. 
Ophthalmology . 2011;118:1193–1200.
154. Lodhi SA, Reddy GA, Sunder CA. Postoperative Nocardia  
endophthalmitis and the challenge of managing with 
intravitreal amikacin. Case Rep Ophthalmol Med . 
2016;2016:2365945.
155. Clark NM, Braun DK, Pasternak A, et al. Primary 
cutaneous Nocardia otitidiscaviarum  infection: case report 
and review. Clin Infect Dis . 1995;20:1266–1270.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 253  Nocardia  Species
3070.e1
References
1. Conville PS, Witebsky FG. Nocardia, Rhodococcus, 
Gordonia, Actinomadura, Streptomyces,  and other aerobic 
actinomycetes. In: Jorgensen JH, Pfaller MA, Carroll KC, 
et al, eds. Manual of Clinical Microbiology . Washington, 
DC: American Society for Microbiology Press; 2015.
2. Brown-Elliott BA, Brown JM, Conville PS, et al. Clinical 
and laboratory features of the Nocardia  spp. based on 
current molecular taxonomy. Clin Microbiol Rev . 
2006;19:259–282.
3. Blosser SJ, Drake SK, Andrasko JL, et al. Multicenter 
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight 
mass spectrometry study for identification of clinically 
relevant Nocardia  spp. J Clin Microbiol . 
2016;54:1251–1258.
4. Xiao M, Pang L, Chen SC, et al. Accurate identification of 
common pathogenic Nocardia  species: evaluation of a 
multilocus sequence analysis platform and matrix-
assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass 
spectrometry. PLoS ONE . 2016;11:e0147487.
5. Cloud JL, Conville PS, Croft A, et al. Evaluation of partial 
16S ribosomal DNA sequencing for identification of 
Nocardia  species by using the MicroSeq 500 system with 
an expanded database. J Clin Microbiol . 2004;42:578–584.
6. Roth A, Andrees S, Kroppenstedt RM, et al. Phylogeny of 
the genus Nocardia  based on reassessed 16S rRNA gene 
sequences reveals underspeciation and division of strains 
classified as Nocardia asteroides  into three established 
species and two unnamed taxons. J Clin Microbiol . 
2003;41:851–856.
7. Carrasco G, Valdezate S, Garrido N, et al. Identification, 
typing, and phylogenetic relationships of the main clinical 
Nocardia  species in Spain according to their gyrB and 
rpoB genes. J Clin Microbiol . 2013;51:3602–3608.
8. Y assin AF , Rainey FA, Steiner U. Nocardia cyriacigeorgica  
sp. nov. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2001;51(Pt 4):  
1419–1423.
9. Y assin AF , Rainey FA, Mendrock U, et al. Nocardia 
abscessus  sp. nov. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2000;50(Pt 
4):1487–1493.
10. Eisenblatter M, Disko U, Stoltenburg-Didinger G, et al. 
Isolation of Nocardia paucivorans  from the cerebrospinal 
fluid of a patient with relapse of cerebral nocardiosis. J 
Clin Microbiol . 2002;40:3532–3534.
11. Hamid ME, Maldonado L, Sharaf Eldin GS, et al. 
Nocardia africana  sp. nov., a new pathogen isolated from 
patients with pulmonary infections. J Clin Microbiol . 
2001;39:625–630.
12. Gurtler V , Smith R, Mayall BC, et al. Nocardia veterana  
sp. nov., isolated from human bronchial lavage. Int J Syst 
Evol Microbiol . 2001;51(Pt 3):933–936.
13. Conville PS, Brown JM, Steigerwalt AG, et al. Nocardia 
wallacei  sp. nov. and Nocardia blacklockiae  sp. nov., 
human pathogens and members of the “ Nocardia 
transvalensis  complex” . J Clin Microbiol . 
2008;46:1178–1184.
14. Lerner PI. Nocardiosis. Clin Infect Dis . 1996;22:891–903, 
quiz 904-895.
15. Peleg AY , Husain S, Qureshi ZA, et al. Risk factors, 
clinical characteristics, and outcome of Nocardia  infection 
in organ transplant recipients: a matched case-control 
study. Clin Infect Dis . 2007;44:1307–1314.
16. Blumel J, Blumel E, Y assin AF , et al. Typing of Nocardia 
farcinica  by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis reveals an 
endemic strain as source of hospital infections. J Clin 
Microbiol . 1998;36:118–122.
17. Al Akhrass F , Hachem R, Mohamed JA, et al. Central 
venous catheter-associated Nocardia  bacteremia in cancer 
patients. Emerg Infect Dis . 2011;17:1651–1658.
18. Apostolou A, Bolcen SJ, Dave V , et al. Nocardia 
cyriacigeorgica  infections attributable to unlicensed 
cosmetic procedures–an emerging public health problem? 
Clin Infect Dis . 2012;55:251–253.
19. Rahdar HA, Azadi D, Shojaei H, et al. Molecular analysis 
and species diversity of Nocardia  in the hospital 
environment in a developing country, a potential health 
hazard. J Med Microbiol . 2017;66:334–341.
20. Provost F , Laurent F , Uzcategui LR, et al. Molecular study 
of persistence of Nocardia asteroides  and Nocardia 
otitidiscaviarum  strains in patients with long-term 
nocardiosis. J Clin Microbiol . 1997;35:1157–1160.
21. Tam S, Maksaereekul S, Hyde DM, et al. IL-17 and γδ 
T-lymphocytes play a critical role in innate immunity 
against Nocardia asteroides  GUH-2. Microbes Infect . 
2012;14:1133–1143.
22. Beaman BL, Beaman L. Nocardia  species: host-parasite 
relationships. Clin Microbiol Rev . 1994;7:213–264.
23. Deem RL, Doughty FA, Beaman BL. Immunologically 
specific direct T lymphocyte-mediated killing of Nocardia 
asteroides . J Immunol . 1983;130:2401–2406.
24. Rosen LB, Rocha Pereira N, Figueiredo C, et al. 
Nocardia -induced granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor is neutralized by autoantibodies 
in disseminated/extrapulmonary nocardiosis. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2015;60:1017–1025.
25. Dorman SE, Guide SV , Conville PS, et al. Nocardia  
infection in chronic granulomatous disease. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2002;35:390–394.
26. Beaman BL. Structural and biochemical alterations of 
Nocardia asteroides  cell walls during its growth cycle. J 
Bacteriol . 1975;123:1235–1253.
27. Tamplin ML, McClung NM. Quantitative studies of the 
relationship between trehalose lipids and virulence of 
Nocardia asteroides  isolates. In: Ortiz-Ortiz L, Bojalil LF , 
Y akeloff V , eds. Biological, Biochemical and Biomedical 
Aspects of Actinomycetes . Orlando, FL: Academic Press; 
1984:251–258.
28. Trevino-Villarreal JH, Vera-Cabrera L, Valero-Guillen PL, 
et al. Nocardia brasiliensis  cell wall lipids modulate 
macrophage and dendritic responses that favor 
development of experimental actinomycetoma in BALB/c 
mice. Infect Immun . 2012;80:3587–3601.
29. Rosas-Taraco AG, Perez-Linan AR, Bocanegra-Ibarias P , 
et al. Nocardia brasiliensis  induces an immunosuppressive 
microenvironment that favors chronic infection in 
BALB/c mice. Infect Immun . 2012;80:2493–2499.
30. Beaman BL. The cell wall as a determinant of 
pathogenicity in Nocardia:  the role of L-forms in 
pathogenesis. In: Ortiz-Ortiz L, Bojalil LF , Y akeloff V , eds. 
Biological, Biochemical and Biomedical Aspects of 
Actinomycetes . Orlando, FL: Academic Press; 1984:  
89–105.
31. Beaman BL. Differential binding of Nocardia asteroides  in 
the murine lung and brain suggests multiple ligands on 
the nocardial surface. Infect Immun . 1996;64:4859–4862.
32. Beaman BL, Ogata SA. Ultrastructural analysis of 
attachment to and penetration of capillaries in the 
murine pons, midbrain, thalamus, and hypothalamus by 
Nocardia asteroides . Infect Immun . 1993;61:955–965.
33. Licon-Trillo A, Angeles Castro-Corona M, Salinas-
Carmona MC. Immunogenicity and biophysical 
properties of a Nocardia brasiliensis  protease involved in 
pathogenesis of mycetoma. FEMS Immunol Med 
Microbiol . 2003;37:37–44.
34. Beaman L, Beaman BL. Monoclonal antibodies 
demonstrate that superoxide dismutase contributes to 
protection of Nocardia asteroides  within the intact host. 
Infect Immun . 1990;58:3122–3128.
35. Zoropogui A, Pujic P , Normand P , et al. The Nocardia 
cyriacigeorgica  GUH-2 genome shows ongoing adaptation 
of an environmental actinobacteria to a pathogen’s 
lifestyle. BMC Genomics . 2013;14:286.
36. Filice GA, Beaman BL, Krick JA, et al. Effects of human 
neutrophils and monocytes on Nocardia asteroides:  failure 
of killing despite occurrence of the oxidative metabolic 
burst. J Infect Dis . 1980;142:432–438.
37. Davis-Scibienski C, Beaman BL. Interaction of alveolar 
macrophages with Nocardia asteroides:  immunological 
enhancement of phagocytosis, phagosome-lysosome 
fusion, and microbicidal activity. Infect Immun . 
1980;30:578–587.
38. Beaman BL, Smathers M. Interaction of Nocardia 
asteroides  with cultured rabbit alveolar macrophages. 
Infect Immun . 1976;13:1126–1131.
39. Kohbata S, Emura S, Kadoya C. Filterable forms of 
Nocardia:  a preferential site of infection in the mouse 
brain. Microbes Infect . 2009;11:744–752.
40. Beaman BL, Scates SM. Role of L-forms of Nocardia 
caviae  in the development of chronic mycetomas in 
normal and immunodeficient murine models. Infect 
Immun . 1981;33:893–907.
41. Buchanan AM, Beaman BL, Pedersen NC, et al. Nocardia 
asteroides  recovery from a dog with steroid- and 
antibiotic-unresponsive idiopathic polyarthritis. J Clin 
Microbiol . 1983;18:702–708.
42. Kuipers S, Aerts PC, van Dijk H. Differential 
microorganism-induced mannose-binding lectin 
activation. FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol . 2003;36:33–39.
43. Schiff TA, McNeil MM, Brown JM. Cutaneous Nocardia 
farcinica  infection in a nonimmunocompromised patient: 
case report and review. Clin Infect Dis . 1993;16:756–760.
44. Desmond EP , Flores M. Mouse pathogenicity studies of 
Nocardia asteroides  complex species and clinical 
correlation with human isolates. FEMS Microbiol Lett . 
1993;110:281–284.
45. Ruimy R, Riegel P , Carlotti A, et al. Nocardia 
pseudobrasiliensis  sp. nov., a new species of Nocardia  
which groups bacterial strains previously identified as 
Nocardia brasiliensis  and associated with invasive 
diseases. Int J Syst Bacteriol . 1996;46:259–264.
46. McNeil MM, Brown JM, Georghiou PR, et al. Infections 
due to Nocardia transvalensis:  clinical spectrum and 
antimicrobial therapy. Clin Infect Dis . 1992;15:453–463.
47. Forbes GM, Harvey FA, Philpott-Howard JN, et al. 
Nocardiosis in liver transplantation: variation in presentation, diagnosis and therapy. J Infect . 1990;20:  
11–19.
48. Coussement J, Lebeaux D, van Delden C, et al. Nocardia  
infection in solid organ transplant recipients: a 
multicenter European case-control study. Clin Infect Dis . 
2016;63:338–345.
49. Shannon K, Pasikhova Y , Ibekweh Q, et al. Nocardiosis 
following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Transpl 
Infect Dis . 2016;18:169–175.
50. Shrestha S, Kanellis J, Korman T, et al. Different faces of 
Nocardia  infection in renal transplant recipients. 
Nephrology (Carlton) . 2016;21:254–260.
51. Al-Tawfiq JA, Al-Khatti AA. Disseminated systemic 
Nocardia farcinica  infection complicating alefacept and 
infliximab therapy in a patient with severe psoriasis. Int J 
Infect Dis . 2010;14:e153–e157.
52. Parra MI, Martinez MC, Remacha MA, et al. Pneumonia 
due to Nocardia cyriacigeorgica  in a patient with Crohn’s 
disease treated with infliximab. J Crohns Colitis . 
2008;2:331–332.
53. Kim J, Minamoto GY , Grieco MH. Nocardial infection as 
a complication of AIDS: report of six cases and review. 
Rev Infect Dis . 1991;13:624–629.
54. Woodworth MH, Saullo JL, Lantos PM, et al. Increasing 
Nocardia  incidence associated with bronchiectasis at a 
tertiary care center. Ann Am Thorac Soc . 
2017;14:347–354.
55. Wilson KW . Nocardiosis: updates and clinical overview. 
Mayo Clin Proc . 2012;87:403–407.
56. Outhred AC, Watts MR, Chen SC, et al. Nocardia  
infections of the face and neck. Curr Infect Dis Rep . 
2011;13:132–140.
57. Wang HL, Seo YH, LaSala PR, et al. Nocardiosis in 132 
patients with cancer: microbiological and clinical 
analyses. Am J Clin Pathol . 2014;142:513–523.
58. Sato H, Okada F , Mori T, et al. High-resolution computed 
tomography findings in patients with pulmonary 
nocardiosis. Acad Radiol . 2016;23:290–296.
59. Uttamchandani RB, Daikos GL, Reyes RR, et al. 
Nocardiosis in 30 patients with advanced human 
immunodeficiency virus infection: clinical features and 
outcome. Clin Infect Dis . 1994;18:348–353.
60. Javaly K, Horowitz HW , Wormser GP . Nocardiosis in 
patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection. 
Report of 2 cases and review of the literature. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1992;71:128–138.
61. Minero MV , Marin M, Cercenado E, et al. Nocardiosis at 
the turn of the century. Medicine (Baltimore) . 2009;88:  
250–261.
62. Lalitha P . Nocardia  keratitis. Curr Opin Ophthalmol . 
2009;20:318–323.
63. Reddy AK, Garg P , Kaur I. Spectrum and 
clinicomicrobiological profile of Nocardia  keratitis caused 
by rare species of Nocardia  identified by 16S rRNA gene 
sequencing. Eye (Lond) . 2010;24:1259–1262.
64. Trichet E, Cohen-Bacrie S, Conrath J, et al. Nocardia 
transvalensis  keratitis: an emerging pathology among 
travelers returning from Asia. BMC Infect Dis . 
2011;11:296.
65. Couble A, Rodriguez-Nava V , de Montclos MP , et al. 
Direct detection of Nocardia  spp. in clinical samples by a 
rapid molecular method. J Clin Microbiol . 2005;43:  
1921–1924.
66. Qasem JA, Khan ZU, Mustafa AS. Diagnosis of 
nocardiosis by polymerase chain reaction: an 
experimental study in mice. Microbiol Res . 2001;  
156:317–322.
67. Ashdown LR. An improved screening technique for 
isolation of Nocardia  species from sputum specimens. 
Pathology . 1990;22:157–161.
68. Shawar RM, Moore DG, LaRocco MT. Cultivation of 
Nocardia  spp. on chemically defined media for selective 
recovery of isolates from clinical specimens. J Clin 
Microbiol . 1990;28:508–512.
69. Vickers RM, Rihs JD, Yu VL. Clinical demonstration of 
isolation of Nocardia asteroides  on buffered charcoal-yeast 
extract media. J Clin Microbiol . 1992;30:227–228.
70. Murray PR, Heeren RL, Niles AC. Effect of 
decontamination procedures on recovery of Nocardia  spp. 
J Clin Microbiol . 1987;25:2010–2011.
71. Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI). 
Interpretive Criteria for Identification of Bacteria and 
Fungi by DNA Target Sequencing—Approved Guideline . 
CSLI Document MM18-A. Wayne, PA: CSLI; 2008.
72. Sánchez-Herrera K, Sandoval H, Mouniee D, et al. 
Molecular identification of Nocardia  species using the 
sodA gene: identificación molecular de especies de 
Nocardia  utilizando el gen sodA. New Microbes New 
Infect . 2017;19:96–116.
73. Kong F , Wang H, Zhang E, et al. Seca1 gene sequence 
polymorphisms for species identification of Nocardia  
species and recognition of intraspecies genetic diversity. J 
Clin Microbiol . 2010;48:3928–3934.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.3070.e2
Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents74. Conville PS, Witebsky FG. Analysis of multiple differing 
copies of the 16S rRNA gene in five clinical isolates and 
three type strains of Nocardia  species and implications for 
species assignment. J Clin Microbiol . 2007;45:1146–1151.
75. Conville PS, Murray PR, Zelazny AM. Evaluation of the 
integrated database network system (IDNS) SmartGene 
software for analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences for 
identification of Nocardia  species. J Clin Microbiol . 
2010;48:2995–2998.
76. Patel JB, Wallace RJ Jr, Brown-Elliott BA, et al. 
Sequence-based identification of aerobic actinomycetes. J 
Clin Microbiol . 2004;42:2530–2540.
77. Tamura T, Matsuzawa T, Oji S, et al. A genome 
sequence-based approach to taxonomy of the genus 
Nocardia . Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek . 2012;102:481–491.
78. McTaggart LR, Richardson SE, Witkowska M, et al. 
Phylogeny and identification of Nocardia  species on the 
basis of multilocus sequence analysis. J Clin Microbiol . 
2010;48:4525–4533.
79. Du P , Hou X, Xie Y , et al. Genotyping of Nocardia 
farcinica  with multilocus sequence typing. Eur J Clin 
Microbiol Infect Dis . 2016;35:771–778.
80. Kwong JC, McCallum N, Sintchenko V , et al. Whole 
genome sequencing in clinical and public health 
microbiology. Pathology . 2015;47:199–210.
81. Girard V , Mailler S, Polsinelli S, et al. Routine 
identification of Nocardia  species by MALDI-TOF mass 
spectrometry. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 2017;87:7–10.
82. Segawa S, Nishimura M, Sogawa K, et al. Identification of 
Nocardia  species using matrix-assisted laser desorption/
ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Clin 
Proteomics . 2015;12:6.
83. Corti ME, Villafane-Fioti MF . Nocardiosis: a review. Int J 
Infect Dis . 2003;7:243–250.
84. Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI). 
Susceptibility Testing of Mycobacteria, Nocardiae, and 
Other Aerobic Actinomycetes . CSLI document M24-MA2. 
Wayne, PA: CLSI; 2011.
85. Ambaye A, Kohner PC, Wollan PC, et al. Comparison of 
agar dilution, broth microdilution, disk diffusion, E-test, 
and BACTEC radiometric methods for antimicrobial 
susceptibility testing of clinical isolates of the Nocardia 
asteroides  complex. J Clin Microbiol . 1997;35:847–852.
86. Schlaberg R, Fisher MA, Hanson KE. Susceptibility 
profiles of Nocardia  isolates based on current taxonomy. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2014;58:795–800.
87. Brown-Elliott BA, Biehle J, Conville PS, et al. 
Sulfonamide resistance in isolates of Nocardia  spp. from a 
US multicenter survey. J Clin Microbiol . 2012;50:670–672.
88. Lai CC, Liu WL, Ko WC, et al. Antimicrobial-resistant 
Nocardia  isolates, Taiwan, 1998-2009. Clin Infect Dis . 
2011;52:833–835.
89. Tremblay J, Thibert L, Alarie I, et al. Nocardiosis in 
Quebec, Canada, 1988-2008. Clin Microbiol Infect . 
2011;17:690–696.
90. Uhde KB, Pathak S, McCullum I Jr, et al. Antimicrobial-
resistant Nocardia  isolates, United States, 1995-2004. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2010;51:1445–1448.
91. Conville PS, Brown-Elliott BA, Wallace RJ Jr, et al. 
Multisite reproducibility of the broth microdilution 
method for susceptibility testing of Nocardia  species. J 
Clin Microbiol . 2012;50:1270–1280.
92. Jodlowski TZ, Melnychuk I, Conry J. Linezolid for the 
treatment of Nocardia  spp. infections. Ann Pharmacother . 
2007;41:1694–1699.
93. Moylett EH, Pacheco SE, Brown-Elliott BA, et al. Clinical 
experience with linezolid for the treatment of Nocardia  
infection. Clin Infect Dis . 2003;36:313–318.
94. De La Cruz O, Minces LR, Silveira FP . Experience with 
linezolid for the treatment of nocardiosis in organ 
transplant recipients. J Infect . 2015;70:44–51.
95. Smego RA Jr, Moeller MB, Gallis HA. Trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole therapy for Nocardia  infections. Arch 
Intern Med . 1983;143:711–718.
96. Wallace RJ Jr, Septimus EJ, Williams TW Jr, et al. Use  
of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for treatment of 
infections due to Nocardia . Rev Infect Dis . 1982;4:  
315–325.
97. Maderazo EG, Quintiliani R. Treatment of nocardial 
infection with trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole. Am J 
Med . 1974;57:671–675.
98. Ice LL, Barreto JN, Dao BD, et al. Relationship of 
sulfamethoxazole therapeutic drug monitoring to clinical 
efficacy and toxicity: a retrospective cohort study. Ther 
Drug Monit . 2016;38:319–326.
99. Beaman BL, Boiron P , Beaman L, et al. Nocardia  and 
nocardiosis. J Med Vet Mycol . 1992;30(suppl 1):317–331.
100. Byrne E, Brophy BP , Perrett LV . Nocardia  cerebral abscess: 
new concepts in diagnosis, management, and prognosis. J 
Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry . 1979;42:1038–1045.
101. Smith PW , Steinkraus GE, Henricks BW , et al. CNS 
nocardiosis: response to sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim. 
Arch Neurol . 1980;37:729–730.102. Wilson JP , Turner HR, Kirchner KA, et al. Nocardial 
infections in renal transplant recipients. Medicine 
(Baltimore) . 1989;68:38–57.
103. McNeil MM, Brown JM, Hutwagner LC, et al. Evaluation 
of therapy for Nocardia asteroides  complex infections. 
Infect Dis Clin Pract . 1995;4:287–292.
104. Bigby M, Jick S, Jick H, et al. Drug-induced cutaneous 
reactions. A report from the Boston collaborative drug 
surveillance program on 15,438 consecutive inpatients, 
1975 to 1982. JAMA . 1986;256:3358–3363.
105. Jick H. Adverse reactions to trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole in hospitalized patients. Rev Infect Dis . 
1982;4:426–428.
106. Gordin FM, Simon GL, Wofsy CB, et al. Adverse 
reactions to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in patients 
with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Ann 
Intern Med . 1984;100:495–499.
107. Bradley PP , Warden GD, Maxwell JG, et al. Neutropenia 
and thrombocytopenia in renal allograft recipients treated 
with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Ann Intern Med . 
1980;93:560–562.
108. Gombert ME, Aulicino TM, duBouchet L, et al. Therapy 
of experimental cerebral nocardiosis with imipenem, 
amikacin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and 
minocycline. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1986;30:  
270–273.
109. Gombert ME, Berkowitz LB, Aulicino TM, et al. Therapy 
of pulmonary nocardiosis in immunocompromised mice. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1990;34:1766–1768.
110. Brown-Elliott BA, Killingley J, Vasireddy S, et al. In vitro 
comparison of ertapenem, meropenem, and imipenem 
against isolates of rapidly growing mycobacteria and 
Nocardia  by use of broth microdilution and etest. J Clin 
Microbiol . 2016;54:1586–1592.
111. Gombert ME, Aulicino TM. Synergism of imipenem and 
amikacin in combination with other antibiotics against 
Nocardia asteroides . Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1983;24:810–811.
112. Choucino C, Goodman SA, Greer JP , et al. Nocardial 
infections in bone marrow transplant recipients. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1996;23:1012–1019.
113. Goldstein FW , Hautefort B, Acar JF . Amikacin-containing 
regimens for treatment of nocardiosis in 
immunocompromised patients. Eur J Clin Microbiol . 
1987;6:198–200.
114. Menendez R, Cordero PJ, Santos M, et al. Pulmonary 
infection with Nocardia  species: a report of 10 cases and 
review. Eur Respir J . 1997;10:1542–1546.
115. Y azawa K, Mikami Y , Ohashi S, et al. In-vitro activity of 
new carbapenem antibiotics: comparative studies with 
meropenem, L-627 and imipenem against pathogenic 
Nocardia  spp. J Antimicrob Chemother . 1992;29:169–172.
116. Cercenado E, Marin M, Sanchez-Martinez M, et al. In 
vitro activities of tigecycline and eight other 
antimicrobials against different Nocardia  species 
identified by molecular methods. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2007;51:1102–1104.
117. Hartmann A, Halvorsen CE, Jenssen T, et al. Intracerebral 
abscess caused by Nocardia otitidiscaviarum  in a renal 
transplant patient–cured by evacuation plus antibiotic 
therapy. Nephron . 2000;86:79–83.
118. Velasco N, Farrington K, Greenwood R, et al. Atypical 
presentation of systematic nocardiosis and successful 
treatment with meropenem. Nephrol Dial Transplant . 
1996;11:709–710.
119. Lebeaux D, Freund R, van Delden C, et al. Outcome and 
treatment of nocardiosis after solid organ transplantation: 
new insights from a European study. Clin Infect Dis . 
2017;64:1396–1405.
120. Gombert ME, duBouchet L, Aulicino TM, et al. 
Antimicrobial synergism in the therapy of experimental 
cerebral nocardiosis. J Antimicrob Chemother . 
1989;24:39–43.
121. Brown-Elliott BA, Ward SC, Crist CJ, et al. In vitro 
activities of linezolid against multiple Nocardia  species. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2001;45:1295–1297.
122. Valdezate S, Garrido N, Carrasco G, et al. Epidemiology 
and susceptibility to antimicrobial agents of the main 
Nocardia  species in Spain. J Antimicrob Chemother . 
2017;72:754–761.
123. Diekema DJ, Jones RN. Oxazolidinone antibiotics. Lancet . 
2001;358:1975–1982.
124. Rivero A, Garcia-Lazaro M, Perez-Camacho I, et al. 
Successful long-term treatment with linezolid for 
disseminated infection with multiresistant Nocardia 
farcinica . Infection . 2008;36:389–391.
125. Birmingham MC, Rayner CR, Meagher AK, et al. 
Linezolid for the treatment of multidrug-resistant, 
gram-positive infections: experience from a 
compassionate-use program. Clin Infect Dis . 
2003;36:159–168.
126. Cattaneo D, Orlando G, Cozzi V , et al. Linezolid plasma 
concentrations and occurrence of drug-related haematological toxicity in patients with gram-positive 
infections. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 2013;41:586–589.
127. Pea F , Viale P , Cojutti P , et al. Therapeutic drug 
monitoring may improve safety outcomes of long-term 
treatment with linezolid in adult patients. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2012;67:2034–2042.
128. Song T, Lee M, Jeon HS, et al. Linezolid trough 
concentrations correlate with mitochondrial toxicity-
related adverse events in the treatment of chronic 
extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis. EBioMedicine . 
2015;2:1627–1633.
129. Brown-Elliott BA, Wallace RJ Jr. In vitro susceptibility 
testing of tedizolid against isolates of Nocardia . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2017;61.
130. Shorr AF , Lodise TP , Corey GR, et al. Analysis of the 
phase 3 ESTABLISH trials of tedizolid versus linezolid in 
acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2015;59:864–871.
131. Matin A, Sharma S, Mathur P , et al. Myelosuppression-
sparing treatment of central nervous system nocardiosis 
in a multiple myeloma patient utilizing a tedizolid-based 
regimen: a case report. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 
2017;49:488–492.
132. Bach MC, Monaco AP , Finland M. Pulmonary 
nocardiosis. Therapy with minocycline and with 
erythromycin plus ampicillin. JAMA . 1973;224:  
1378–1381.
133. Wren MV , Savage AM, Alford RH. Apparent cure of 
intracranial Nocardia asteroides  infection by minocycline. 
Arch Intern Med . 1979;139:249–250.
134. Lewis KE, Ebden P , Wooster SL, et al. Multi-system 
infection with Nocardia farcinica —therapy with linezolid 
and minocycline. J Infect . 2003;46:199–202.
135. Weber L, Yium J, Hawkins S. Intracranial Nocardia  
dissemination during minocycline therapy. Transpl Infect 
Dis. 2002;4:108–112.
136. Arduino RC, Johnson PC, Miranda AG. Nocardiosis  
in renal transplant recipients undergoing 
immunosuppression with cyclosporine. Clin Infect Dis . 
1993;16:505–512.
137. Wortman PD. Treatment of a Nocardia brasiliensis  
mycetoma with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, 
amikacin, and amoxicillin and clavulanate. Arch 
Dermatol . 1993;129:564–567.
138. Wallace RJ Jr, Nash DR, Johnson WK, et al. Beta-lactam 
resistance in Nocardia brasiliensis  is mediated by 
beta-lactamase and reversed in the presence of clavulanic 
acid. J Infect Dis . 1987;156:959–966.
139. Steingrube V A, Wallace RJ Jr, Brown BA, et al. Acquired 
resistance of Nocardia brasiliensis  to clavulanic acid 
related to a change in beta-lactamase following therapy 
with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1991;35:524–528.
140. Hansen G, Swanzy S, Gupta R, et al. In vitro activity of 
fluoroquinolones against clinical isolates of Nocardia  
identified by partial 16S rRNA sequencing. Eur J Clin 
Microbiol Infect Dis . 2008;27:115–120.
141. Dahan K, El Kabbaj D, Venditto M, et al. Intracranial 
Nocardia  recurrence during fluorinated quinolones 
therapy. Transpl Infect Dis . 2006;8:161–165.
142. Fihman V , Bercot B, Mateo J, et al. First successful 
treatment of Nocardia farcinica  brain abscess with 
moxifloxacin. J Infect . 2006;52:e99–e102.
143. Wallace RJ Jr, Brown BA, Tsukamura M, et al. Clinical 
and laboratory features of Nocardia nova . J Clin 
Microbiol . 1991;29:2407–2411.
144. Naik S, Mateo-Bibeau R, Shinnar M, et al. Successful 
treatment of Nocardia nova  bacteremia and multilobar 
pneumonia with clarithromycin in a heart transplant 
patient. Transplant Proc . 2007;39:1720–1722.
145. Burucoa C, Breton I, Ramassamy A, et al. Western blot 
monitoring of disseminated Nocardia nova  infection 
treated with clarithromycin, imipenem, and surgical 
drainage. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 1996;15:  
943–947.
146. Lai CC, Liu WL, Ko WC, et al. Multicenter study in 
Taiwan of the in vitro activities of nemonoxacin, 
tigecycline, doripenem, and other antimicrobial agents 
against clinical isolates of various Nocardia  species. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2011;55:2084–2091.
147. Lopes CF . Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in the 
treatment of actinomycotic mycetoma by Nocardia 
brasiliensis . Fohla Medica . 1996;73:89–92.
148. Mamelak AN, Obana WG, Flaherty JF , et al. Nocardial 
brain abscess: treatment strategies and factors influencing 
outcome. Neurosurgery . 1994;35:622–631.
149. Poland GA, Jorgensen CR, Sarosi GA. Nocardia asteroides  
pericarditis: a report of a case and a review of the 
literature. Mayo Clin Proc . 1990;65:819–824.
150. DeCroos FC, Garg P , Reddy AK, et al. Optimizing 
diagnosis and management of Nocardia  keratitis, scleritis, 
and endophthalmitis: 11-year microbial and clinical 
overview. Ophthalmology . 2011;118:1193–1200.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 253  Nocardia  Species
3070.e3
151. Kalavathy CM, Parmar P , Ramalingam K, et al. 
Trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole therapy in Nocardia  
keratitis. Clin Exp Ophthalmol . 2004;32:424–428.
152. Ray KJ, Prajna L, Srinivasan M, et al. Fluoroquinolone 
treatment and susceptibility of isolates from bacterial 
keratitis. JAMA Ophthalmol . 2013;131:310–313.
153. Srinivasan M, Mascarenhas J, Rajaraman R, et al.  
The steroids for corneal ulcers trial (SCUT):  
secondary 12-month clinical outcomes of a  
randomized controlled trial. Am J Ophthalmol . 
2014;157:327–333, e323.
154. Lodhi SA, Reddy GA, Sunder CA. Postoperative Nocardia  
endophthalmitis and the challenge of managing with 
intravitreal amikacin. Case Rep Ophthalmol Med . 
2016;2016:2365945.
155. Clark NM, Braun DK, Pasternak A, et al. Primary 
cutaneous Nocardia otitidiscaviarum  infection: case report 
and review. Clin Infect Dis . 1995;20:1266–1270.156. Geiseler PJ, Andersen BR. Results of therapy in systemic 
nocardiosis. Am J Med Sci . 1979;278:188–194.
157. King AS, Castro JG, Dow GC. Nocardia farcinica  lung 
abscess presenting in the context of advanced HIV 
infection: spontaneous resolution in response to highly 
active antiretroviral therapy alone. Can J Infect Dis Med 
Microbiol . 2009;20:e103–e106.
158. Meier B, Metzger U, Muller F , et al. Successful treatment 
of a pancreatic Nocardia asteroides  abscess with amikacin 
and surgical drainage. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1986;29:150–151.
159. Garlando F , Bodmer T, Lee C, et al. Successful treatment 
of disseminated nocardiosis complicated by cerebral 
abscess with ceftriaxone and amikacin: case report. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1992;15:1039–1040.
160. van Burik JA, Hackman RC, Nadeem SQ, et al. 
Nocardiosis after bone marrow transplantation: a 
retrospective study. Clin Infect Dis . 1997;24:1154–1160.161. Anagnostou T, Arvanitis M, Kourkoumpetis TK, et al. 
Nocardiosis of the central nervous system: experience 
from a general hospital and review of 84 cases from the 
literature. Medicine (Baltimore) . 2014;93:19–32.
162. Rafiei N, Peri AM, Righi E, et al. Central nervous system 
nocardiosis in Queensland: a report of 20 cases and 
review of the literature. Medicine (Baltimore) . 
2016;95:e5255.
163. Hashemi-Shahraki A, Heidarieh P , Bostanabad SZ, et al. 
Genetic diversity and antimicrobial susceptibility of 
Nocardia  species among patients with nocardiosis. Sci 
Rep. 2015;5:17862.
164. Larruskain J, Idigoras P , Marimon JM, et al. Susceptibility 
of 186 Nocardia  sp. isolates to 20 antimicrobial agents. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2011;55:2995–2998.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.