2393
Staphylococcus aureus (Including 
Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
Yok-Ai Que and Philippe Moreilloni. Gram-Positive Cocci
Definition
• Staphylococcus aureus  is a gram-positive 
pathogen that is responsible for superficial 
and deep-seated infections.
• It is a frequent colonizer of asymptomatic 
carriers .
• The organism is responsible for both pyogenic 
and toxin-related diseases .
• It is the primary cause of community- and 
hospital-acquired bloodstream infections and the first cause of invasive infections including infective endocarditis and osteomyelitis.
•
 Frequently, S. aureus  is resistant to methicillin 
(methicillin-resistant S. aureus  [MRSA]) and 
almost all β-lactam drugs (in up to 50% of hospital isolates).
•
 Often it is coresistant to many clinically 
available antibiotics .
Epidemiology
• S. aureus  is a colonizer of the anterior nostrils 
in 20% to 40% of the normal population.
• With regard to drug-resistant nosocomial 
infections, it is the number one public health problem.
•
 Clonal spread of MRSA occurs from health 
care settings (health care–associated [HCA] MRSA) and other permissive environments (see Fig. 194.2).
•
 Polyclonal dispersion of susceptible strains 
occurs in the community, but successful clones of community-acquired (CA) MRSA may spread worldwide (e.g., USA300).
•
 The organism is a superantigen producer 
responsible for toxic shock syndrome and food poisoning.
Microbiology
• S. aureus  is the most virulent species of the 
more than 40 Staphylococcus  spp. taxa.
• Its conserved core genome consists of 
approximately 2.8 million base pairs .
• It has multiple mobile genetic elements 
(MGEs): pathogenic and genomic islands, transposons, and prophages encoding virulence and antibiotic-resistance genes (see Tables 194.1 and 194.3).
•
 Multiple immune-evasion strategies are used 
by the organism, which impedes vaccine development (see Table 194.4).
•
 Evolution of successful clones occurs by means 
of mutations and acquisition of MGEs .
• Methicillin resistance is conferred by a 
polymorph family of SCC mec cassettes .
Diagnosis
• Conventional cultures are mandatory and 
critical for the detection of new resistance phenotypes .
•
 Molecular tests are useful for rapid 
identification of known drug-resistance  genes .•
 Molecular typing is critical for management of 
MRSA epidemics and infection control.
Therapy (See Tables 194.9 and 194.10)
• The first choice for methicillin-susceptible S. 
aureus  is a penicillinase-resistant β-lactam or 
first-generation cephalosporin—for instance, cephalexin or dicloxacillin orally; nafcillin or oxacillin intravenously; or, outside the United States, flucloxacillin. Alternatives include clindamycin or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) orally or intravenously.
•
 The first choice for MRSA would be 
vancomycin or daptomycin intravenously, or, if susceptible, TMP-SMX or clindamycin given orally or intravenously. Alternatives include ceftaroline, linezolid, or telavancin or, for acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections, dalbavancin, oritavancin, or tedizolid.
•
 A partner drug for combinations is rifampin.
• The benefit of aminoglycosides not well 
demonstrated and no longer recommended for native valve endocarditis .
Prevention
• Prevention measures include the following:
• Decolonization of staphylococcal carriers 
(see Table 194.8)
• Detection of HCA-MRSA and epidemic 
CA-MRSA
• Hand hygiene measures
• Vaccines in developmentSHORT VIEW SUMMARY
Staphylococcus aureus  is a highly successful opportunistic pathogen. It 
is a frequent colonizer of the skin and mucosa of humans and animals 
(it is present in the anterior nares of up to 30% of the healthy human population) and can produce a wide variety of diseases. These diseases encompass relatively benign skin infections, such as folliculitis and furunculosis, and life-threatening conditions, including erysipelas, deep-seated abscesses, osteomyelitis, pneumonia, sepsis, and endocar -
ditis.
1 In addition to infections in which the organism is physically 
present at the infected site, S. aureus is also capable of producing “distant” 
diseases, which are mediated by the secretion of toxins.2 The toxins can 
be produced directly  by bacteria that colonize the skin or mucosa or 
indirectly  by microorganisms that colonize food or beverages. The former 
is exemplified by staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome (SSSS),3,4 which 
is the result of skin, mucosal, or wound colonization by S. aureus–
producing exfoliative toxin A or B (ETA or ETB) and by staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome (TSS),2,5 which is the result of the production of 
toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1) or exotoxins B or C. The latter is exemplified by S. aureus food intoxication, in which the toxin is ingested with the contaminated dish, and disease follows shortly thereafter in the form of vomiting and diarrhea. Food intoxication is the result of staphylococcal toxins called enterotoxins.
2,6 These toxins are heat 
stable. Cooking may kill the contaminants but does not denature the toxins. Hence, subsequent culture of the dish may fail to grow the culprit bacterium.
S. aureus has an extraordinary capacity to adapt and survive in a 
great variety of environments. During the past decades, molecular and genetic dissection of S. aureus has revealed a great number of surface 
adhesins, which mediate adherence to and colonization of target tissues, and secreted enzymes, toxins, superantigens (SAgs) and immune evasion determinants that are responsible for invasion and distant disease  194 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
2393.e1
Revised July 1, 2020
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2394Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
The genus Staphylococcus  contains up to 40 taxa, 16 of which are 
commonly found in humans ( Table 194.2 ). Only a few are pathogenic in the 
absence of predisposing immunosuppression or implanted foreign material. 
The most virulent ones include S. aureus, Staphylococcus lugdunensis,  and 
Staphylococcus schleiferi  in humans, and S. aureus and Staphylococcus 
intermedius  in animals. Although Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphy -
lococcus haemolyticus,  and Staphylococcus saprophyticus  are commonly 
responsible for device-related and urinary tract infections, they produce substantially less devastating disease syndromes than S. aureus.
S. aureus harbors some unique features when compared with its 
less–disease-producing congeners. These include coagulase and clumping factors (or fibrinogen-binding proteins), which have laboratory diagnostic value because they help rapidly discriminate between coagulase-positive (i.e., S. aureus) and coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS; see Table 
194.2). Moreover, S. aureus carries between more than 20 and more than 30 adhesin and toxin genes, respectively, as compared with 10 or fewer adhesin genes and virtually no toxin genes for the CoNS mentioned previously.
7,16–18 Thus, S. aureus is a distinct pathogen within the 
Staphylococcus  genus.
Habitat
Staphylococci are ubiquitous colonizers of the skin and mucosa of virtually all animals, including mammals and birds.
11,12 Some species 
have preferential niches as indicated by their names (see Table 194.2). 
S. epidermidis  and Staphylococcus capitis  are constant colonizers of the 
skin and scalp, respectively. Staphylococcus pseudintermedius  is a colonizer 
of cats and dogs and may be misidentified as S. aureus (tube coagulase 
positive, slide coagulase negative) when transmitted by animal bites.19
In animals, S. aureus  is a major cause of livestock infection, including 
mastitis in bovine and ovine herds. In humans, S. aureus has a niche (Table 194.1).1,7–9 The availability of now several thousands of S. aureus 
genome assemblies and annotation reports (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/genomes/154) has helped complete this portrait. S. aureus is 
part of the Firmicutes phylum and shares approximately 50% of orthologue genes with notoriously nonpathogenic Bacillus subtilis,  which 
indicates that the two organisms have evolved from a common ancestor.
10–12 Homology searches on the chromosome revealed numerous 
new surface-attached and secreted factors that represent additional pathogenic factors. S. aureus harbors a large number of mobile genetic 
elements (MGEs) from exogenous origin, including insertion sequences, transposons, bacteriophages, pathogenicity islands, and genomic islands, which contain specific determinants responsible for disease and antibiotic resistance.
7,8,10,13,14 The presence of these exogenous elements attests to 
the high capacity of S. aureus to undergo horizontal gene transfer and 
exchange genetic elements with other organisms, including staphylococcal and nonstaphylococcal genera. Because gene exchange is a key player of evolution, this peculiar genetic plasticity is a likely explanation for the success of S. aureus, both as a colonizer and a disease-producing microbe. In the case of SAgs (see later discussion), one of the trading partner is suspected to be Streptococcus pyogenes.
2
THE MICROORGANISM
Members of the Staphylococcus  genus are gram-positive cocci (0.5–1.5  µm 
in diameter) that occur singly and in pairs, tetrads, short chains, and irregular grapelike clusters. Ogston
15 introduced the name Staphylococcus  
(Greek staphylé,  “a bunch of grapes”) to describe micrococci responsible 
for inflammation and suppuration. Staphylococci are nonmotile, non–spore forming, and usually catalase positive, and they are often unencapsulated or have a limited capsule (Fig. 194.1). Most species are facultative anaerobes.
11,12
FIG. 194.1  Gram staining and transmission electron microscopy of clinical samples of Staphylococcus aureus. Left, Gram-stained sputum 
specimen from 20-year-old patient with fulminant hemorrhagic S. aureus pneumonia (see also Fig. 194.8). Grapelike clusters of bacteria and eukaryotic 
cells are visible. Right, Electron microscopy images from rat with experimental aortic endocarditis caused by S. aureus. Upper part depicts S. aureus in 
process of invading valve endothelial cell. Lower part depicts endothelial cell that has been lysed by invading bacteria, probably as a result of S. aureus 
hemolysin secretion. L, Lumen side of endothelium. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2395Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)TABLE 194.1  Some of the Major Staphylococcus aureus Extracellular Factors Involved in Pathogenesis and 
Response to Global Regulatory Elements During Bacterial Growth
GENE LOCATION PRODUCTACTIVITY OR 
FUNCTION TIMINGaACTION OF REGULATORY GENESb
agr saeRS rot sarA
Surface Proteins
spa Chromosome Protein A Blocks IgGs, binds von 
Willebrand factorExp − See footnotec+
cna Chromosome Collagen BP Collagen binding Exp −
fnbA Chromosome Fibronectin BPA Fibronectin binding Exp − -
fnbB Chromosome Fibronectin BPB Fibronectin binding Exp − +
clfA Chromosome Clumping factor A Fibrinogen binding Exp 0
clfB Chromosome Clumping factor B Fibrinogen binding Exp 0 + 0
sdrC Chromosome Serine-aspartate repeat protein Fibrinogen binding
Cytokeratin bindingExp +
Capsular Polysaccharides
cap5 Chromosome Polysaccharide capsule type 5 Antiphagocytosis Pxp + +
cap8 Chromosome Polysaccharide capsule type 8 Antiphagocytosis Pxp +
Cytotoxins
hla Chromosome α-Hemolysin Hemolysin, cytotoxin Pxp + + − See footnotec
hlb Chromosome β-Hemolysin Hemolysin, cytotoxin Pxp + + − See footnotec
hld Chromosome δ-Hemolysin Hemolysin, cytotoxin Pxp + 0 +
hlg Chromosome γ-Hemolysin Hemolysin, cytotoxin Pxp + − See footnotec
lukS/F PVL phage PVL Leucocidin Pxp + −
Superantigens
sea Bacteriophage Enterotoxin A Food poisoning, TSS Xp 0
seb SaPI3dEnterotoxin B Food poisoning, TSS Pxp + See footnotec
sec SaPI4dEnterotoxin C Food poisoning, TSS Pxp +
sed Plasmid Enterotoxin D Food poisoning, TSS Pxp +
eta ETA phage Exfoliatin A Scalded skin syndrome Pxp +
etb Plasmid Exfoliatin B Scalded skin syndrome Pxp +
tst SaPI1,2, bov1dToxic shock toxin 1 TSS Pxp + See footnotec
Enzymes
SplA-F Chromosome Serine protease-like Putative protease + −
ssp Chromosome V8 protease Spreading factor Pxp + 0 −
aur Chromosome Metalloprotease (aureolysin) Processing enzyme? Pxp + −
sspB Chromosome Cysteine protease Processing enzyme? ? −
scp Chromosome Staphopain (protease II) Spreading, nutrition Pxp + −
geh Chromosome Glycerol ester hydrolase Spreading, nutrition Pxp + 0 − See footnotec
lip Chromosome Lipase (butyryl esterase) Spreading, nutrition Pxp + 0 See footnotec
fme Chromosome FAME Fatty acid esterification Pxp + See footnotec
plc Chromosome PI-phospholipase C Pxp +
nuc Chromosome Nuclease Nutrition Pxp + +
has Chromosome Hyaluronidase Spreading factor Xp See footnotec
coa Chromosome Coagulase Clotting, clot digestion Exp + + +
sak Bacteriophage Staphylokinase Plasminogen activator Pxp + 0
aTiming: Xp, throughout exponential phase; Exp, early exponential phase only; Pxp, postexponential phase; 0, no effect of gene on. Expression: +, upregulated; −, 
downregulated.
bagr, Accessory gene regulator; PVL, Panton-Valentine leukocidin; saeRS, S. aureus  exoproteins; rot, repressor of toxins; sarA, Staphylococcus  accessory regulator.
cControversial.
dSaPI, S. aureus  pathogenic island.
B P, Binding protein; FAME, fatty acid modifying enzyme; TSS, toxic shock syndrome.
Modified from Cheung AL, Projan SJ, Gresham H. The genomic aspect of virulence, sepsis, and resistance to killing mechanisms in Staphylococcus aureus. Curr Infect Dis 
Rep. 2002;4:400–410; and Novick RP , Geisinger E. Quorum sensing in staphylococci. Ann Rev Genet . 2008;42:541–564.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2396Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
Morphologic Variants
Prolonged incubation is particularly important for the detection of 
morphology variants such as small colony variants  (SCVs). SCVs grow 
into tiny colonies that are difficult to distinguish and may be mistakenly disregarded as contaminants.
30 They are usually recovered from pro -
tracted, difficult-to-treat infections such as chronic osteomyelitis and infected osteosynthetic prostheses, and have also been described in patients with cystic fibrosis.
31
The most classic types of SCVs are selected during aminoglycoside 
therapy and result from alterations in the respiratory chain. Such SCVs have a lower transmembrane potential, which impedes the intake of the drug.
32 Interesting to note, switching from normal colonies 
to SCVs occurs naturally in the absence of antibiotic at a high rate (about 10
−6), and switching back from SCVs to normal colonies also 
occurs.33 Hence, SCVs are proposed to result from an intrinsic capac-
ity of the bacterium to survive in unfavorable conditions rather than  
fortuitous mutations.
SCVs are also selected by other antimicrobial agents, including 
triclosan.34 They were recovered from the sputa of up to 25% of children 
with cystic fibrosis and were statistically significantly associated with previous trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) therapy.
31 Such 
SCVs carry mutations in the thymidylate synthase gene (thyA) and are 
dependent on exogenous thymidine to grow.35 S. aureus synthesizes 
thymidine by using thyA  plus tetrahydrofolate to convert uridine 
monophosphate into thymidine monophosphate. TMP inhibits the synthesis of tetrahydrofolate, thus making thyA  useless. By mutating 
the thyA  gene, S. aureus  forces itself to rely on exogenous vital thymidine 
by importing it. This makes the bacterium resistant to TMP . Thymidine is available in DNA-rich lung secretions of patients with cystic fibrosis and in abscesses. However, the rate of thymidine import is limiting, which results in slow growth and SCV phenotype.
In spite of slow growth, SCVs are equally as or more infective 
than their fast-growing parents in experimental infections such as osteoarthritis
36 and endocarditis.37 Moreover, SCVs are particularly 
prone to invade eukaryotic cells and persist in them,30,38 which may 
explain their occurrence in latent infections. SCVs are cross-resistant to drug-induced killing by most antibiotics,
32 and their eradication 
necessitates prolonged antibiotic therapy including drug combinations  
with rifampin.
MOLECULAR DIAGNOSIS
Molecular diagnosis plays an increasing role in rapid detection of microbial pathogens and identification of drug-resistance determinants. Techniques based on molecular probing have been reviewed.
39 One of preference for the anterior nares, especially in adults,20–22 and is shed 
onto healthy skin, including axilla and perineum. However, certain clones may have preferences for more hidden niches, as was shown in the case of a peculiar epidemic hospital methicillin-resistant S. aureus 
(MRSA) clone that colonized the groin and rectum.
23 S. aureus can 
exist as a resident or a transient member of the normal flora. Nasal carrier rate varies from 10% to 40% in both the community and the hospital environment. S. aureus carriage in various anatomic sites may put certain populations at an increased risk for infection, such as patients with recurring furunculosis and patients who are subject to medical procedures, including hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, and surgery (see later section “ Carriage of Staphylococcus aureus ”).
24–26
S. aureus carriage has also become a way of persistence and spread 
of multiresistant staphylococci, especially MRSA.20,21,23,26 Because MRSA 
can resist many of the antibiotics in common use, it has risen to the level of a public health threat in the hospital for 3 decades and in the community since the beginning of this century.
25,27
Culture and Identification
Live organisms obtained by means of culture are critical for phenotypic diagnosis and revealing emerging antibiotic resistant phenotypes from as yet unknown mechanisms. In addition, molecular diagnosis helps speed up the results, which take a few hours instead of 1 to 3 days with bacterial subculturing. Molecular methods also help detect the presence of nonculturable microbes, mostly when patients have taken antibiotics before sample collection.
Techniques for culture and identification of staphylococci have been 
described.
11 Specimens should be inoculated both on blood agar and 
into rich liquid media such as Mueller-Hinton broth. With S. aureus, abundant growth occurs normally within 18 to 24 hours. However, morphologic variants (see subsequent discussion) may require prolonged growth periods, and plates should be kept 2 to 3 days in order to detect them. Colonies should be Gram stained, subcultured, and tested for genus, species, and antibiotic susceptibility when appropriate. Phenotypic tests for species identification include coagulase tests and agglutination tests, which detect the presence of surface determinants, including clumping factor, protein A, and polysaccharides.
28 Phenotypic antibiotic 
susceptibility tests vary from agar-diffusion methods (e.g., Kirby-Bauer and Etests) to automated measurement of metabolic activity or growth rates. Macro broth or agar dilution methods are precise but are not routinely performed in the laboratory.
29
Molecular specification may be necessary in case of unclear phenotype, 
such as, for instance, in the case of morphologic variants (see next section).TABLE 194.2  Some Staphylococcal Species From Mammals and Relationship Between Production of 
Coagulase and Clumping Factor (Fibrinogen-Binding Protein A) and Potential Virulence
HOST SPECIES COAGULASEaCLUMPING FACTORaVIRULENCEa
Human and other primates S. aureus ++ ++ +++
S. epidermidis − − +
S. capitis − − ±
S. caprae − − ±
S. saccharolyticus ± − −
S. warneri − − −
S. pasteuri − − −
S. haemolyticus − − +
S. hominis − − ±
S. lugdunensis − ± +
S. auricularis − − ±
S. saprophyticus − − +
S. cohnii − − −
S. xilosus − − −
S. simulans − − −
S. schleiferi ± + +
Carnivores S. intermedius + − ++
S. felis − − ++
aSemiquantitative estimate of production of coagulase and clumping factor and relation to virulence.
Modified from Kloos WE, Schleifer KH, Goetz F. The genus Staphylococcus . In: Balows A, Trüper HG, Dworkin M, et  al, eds. The Prokaryotes. 2nd ed. New York: Springer-
Verlag; 1992:1369–1420; and Kloos WE, Bannerman TL. Staphylococcus and Micrococcus . In: Murray PR, Baron EJ, Pfaller MA, et  al, eds. Manual of Clinical Microbiology . 
6th ed. Washington, DC: ASM Press; 1995:282–298.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2397Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)these techniques relies on fluorescent detection of 16S rRNA with a 
peptide nucleic acid probe (peptide nucleic acid fluorescence in situ hybridization [PNA-FISH]). Such a technique has been shown to be highly specific and to help in discriminating S. aureus from CoNS in 
blood culture within 4 hours.
40 In addition, its usefulness in clinical 
therapeutic decision making has also been demonstrated.41
Multiplex real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays are 
being developed to quantify organisms directly in clinical samples. Genes representative of both species and resistance mechanisms are amplified simultaneously. For MRSA, the resistance gene sought is mecA, which 
encodes low-affinity penicillin-binding protein A (PBP2A).
However, mecA  is also present in methicillin-resistant CoNS and thus 
detects simultaneously both MRSA and commensal methicillin-resistant CoNS, which may result in false diagnosis. One way to bypass this limit is to extend the mecA  amplification product to orfX . orfX  is an 
open reading frame that is specific for S. aureus, and its amplification 
ensures the correct diagnosis.
42 Another way is to choose additional 
S. aureus or CoNS specific genes. These include typical S. aureus 
gene versions such as femA,42 protein A (spa), coagulase (coa), and 
nuclease (nuc).43 Other genes or gene combinations were also suc -
cessfully used to discriminate between S. aureus and CoNS in clinical  
samples.42,44,45
Limits may occur with PCR amplification techniques. In some cases, 
proprietary DNA targets, known only to the manufacturer, can make it difficult to assess the vulnerability of commercial molecular assays to changes in the DNA sequence of isolates being tested. In a large multicenter US study of one molecular platform for identifying MRSA, 3 of 93 MRSA isolates were called methicillin-susceptible S. aureus 
(MSSA), and 8 of 102 MSSA isolates were called MRSA, indicating that although molecular typing may be useful for rapid screening of carriers, it may carry the risk of misdiagnosis in clinical care.
46 Likewise, PCR 
amplification using standard primers failed to amplify a new version of the mecA  gene, renamed mecC, that emerged in livestock MRSA.
47 
In this very case, methicillin resistance was detected with phenotypic tests.
48 Moreover, MSSA isolates have been found that had PCR-detected 
mecA  elements but later reverted to methicillin resistance under therapy. 
The loss of a transposon that interrupted mecA  and replication errors 
accounted for this conversion.49
Currently, more rapid identification by matrix-assisted laser 
desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry is being developed, allowing MRSA identification from a colony within 5 minutes as compared with several hours with PCR.
50
However, although more rapid than phenotypic tests, these molecular 
techniques still require prior growth of the organisms, which may take 12 to 24 hours, and do not test all possible antibiotic resistance genes. Whole-genome sequencing may become an option to screen for species and resistance genes, but the bioinformatic workload remains a limiting factor. One emerging technique relies on metagenomic analysis of DNA amplified directly from clinical samples, without prior culturing, through use of next-generation sequencing (NGS). Here, identification of genus, species, and known resistance genes will rely on comparison with large databases,
51 but unknown resistance genes will be missed. Thus, phe-
notypic testing must always be kept in mind.
Molecular Typing
There is a dual interest in studying the genealogy of life. One is academic and aims at solving the evolutionary journey of peculiar organisms. The other is epidemiologic and aims at tracing a peculiar pathogen responsible for clinical problems. S. aureus  is a common pathogen both 
in the hospital and in the community.
27,52 Although the prevalence of 
MRSA has been slowly decreasing over the last decade in the United States and Europe,
53 this trend is not global and the proportion of MRSA 
in health care–related infections remains over 50% in other geographic locations.
54
MRSA is highly clonal, and a few highly successful clones, named 
according to the place where they were described, can be recovered at multiple locations both nationwide and worldwide (i.e., the Iberian, Brazilian, Hungarian, New Y ork/Japan, Pediatric, and EMRSA-16 
pandemic clones).55,56 The main molecular typing methods underlying 
this comprehension are briefly presented later. More complete total genome sequencing may not be required for routine tracing of epidemic strains.
Pulsed-Field Gel Electrophoresis
The seminal method is a restriction-fragment length technique based on large chromosomal fragments generated by digestion with the low-frequency cutting enzyme Sma I. The fragments are separated with 
pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and yield banding patterns specific for particular clones. Banding comparison allowed identification of the major epidemic clones listed earlier, which represented 70% of more than 3000 MRSA isolates recovered worldwide.
56
One limitation of PFGE is that it does not provide accurate informa -
tion on the genealogy of the organism. Indeed, the length of chromosomal fragments, and thus the clone-specific banding, may be modified with acquisition or loss of mobile DNA (MGEs) such as transposons, pro -
phages, or pathogenicity islands. The new banding pattern may identify a different clone, which is in fact the same bacterium that has gained or lost MGEs. This is exemplified by the fact that several PFGE major MRSA epidemic clones belonged to the same multilocus sequence typing (MLST; see later) group.
55 Thus, PFGE is useful to follow epidemic 
clones, but not to build the parental staphylococcal genealogy.
Multilocus Sequence Typing
In contrast to PFGE, MLST is a sequence-based method that allows the unambiguous assignment of the ancestral phylogeny of the staphy -
lococcal population.
57 It consists of sequencing seven housekeeping 
genes (i.e., arcC, aroE, glpF, gmk, pta, tpi,  and yqiL ) and comparing 
them with the sequences of other isolates collected in a central database (www.mlst.net). It compares allelic diversity based on approximately 500-bp internal gene fragments. Thousands of sequences have been submitted, generating numerous sequence types (STs). Organisms that share all seven alleles are defined as clones,  those that share five of seven 
identical alleles are defined as clonal complexes  (CC), and those that 
share less than five alleles are defined as unrelated . Within such arbo -
rescence, STs can be considered as founders of further evolutionary groups such as CCs.
Because housekeeping genes are independent of acquired MGEs, 
MLST traces staphylococci back to their latest common ancestor. Of the seven pandemic clones mentioned previously, six could be traced back to three ancestral MSSA types (i.e., CC5, CC8, and CC30; Fig. 194.2).
58 Thus, a few ancestral clones of MSSA took the lead and suc -
cessfully colonized humans and animals before antibiotic resistance developed. Later acquisition of MGEs carrying drug-resistance or viru -
lence genes helped further adaptation to new conditions (e.g., antibiotic use in hospitals), generating a new PFGE makeup on similar ancestral parents (see “ Comparative Genomics and Evolution ”). Moreover, 
genomics now shows that acquisition of antibiotic resistance genes is reversible and that the contemporary decrease in MRSA prevalence is associated with the loss of the methicillin-resistance determinants.
53
Spa Typing and Double-Locus  
Spa-ClfB Typing
Spa typing and double-locus spa-clfB typing rely on PCR amplification 
of strain-specific regions within hypervariable segments of the spa  
(protein A) or clfB  (clumping factor B) genes.59 The variable regions 
are made of 24 nucleotide repeats in spa  and serine-aspartate repeats 
in clfB, the length of which may vary from duplication or accidental 
loss of DNA material. Single PFGE or MLST types can evolve into different spa or clfB sublineages. Hence, combining these techniques 
generates unambiguous data sets that can be compared in multicenter studies.
Typing is critical in order to understand the S. aureus  epidemiology. 
On the other hand, although a handful of founding ST types appear to be prevalent in MRSA
55 and PVL-positive strains,60 no specific types 
could be attributed to disease-producing versus mere colonizing strains.10
PATHOGENESIS
Regulation and Virulence Determinants
S. aureus is extremely well equipped in surface factors and secreted 
proteins that mediate host colonization and disease (see Table 194.1).1 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2398Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
is off and the operon is transcribed at a low level. As cell growth proceeds, 
the concentrations of both bacteria and extracellular autoinducing peptide increase in the milieu, thereby augmenting the chance of the autoinducing peptide to make contact with its cognate AgrC receptor. On contact, AgrC activates the response regulator AgrA, a process that may involve AgrA dephosphorylation.
61,64
Activated AgrA is a DNA-binding protein that turns on the transcription 
from both promoter P2, generating a positive feedback on the system, and promoter P3, which drives the transcription of δ-hemolysin and of 
a peculiar effector called RNAIII. RNAIII has a reciprocal effect and activates the expression of several secreted proteins while downregulating the expression of surface-bound factors (see Table 194.1). RNAIII has a complex three-dimensional structure and a long half-life (up to 15 minutes). It regulates gene expression in several ways, including at the translational level by blocking the messenger RNA (mRNA) ribosome-binding site (RBS) of the target genes, or by prolonging the half-life of mRNA of downstream pleiotropic transcriptional regulators such as MgrA.
66
The S. aureus chromosome encodes for up to 16 two-component 
regulatory systems involved in both metabolic environmental control and virulence gene regulation.
61,64,65 Important two-component regulatory 
systems regarding virulence genes include saeR/S (for S. aureus exo -
proteins),67 srrAB (for staphylococcal respiratory response),68 and arlS 
(for autolysis-related locus sensor).69 saeR/S was identified with 
transposon mutation in a pleiotropic mutant defective in exoprotein synthesis other than that regulated by agr (e.g., coagulase and nuclease; 
see Table 194.1).
70 saeR/S acts independently of agr  and responds to 
environmental stimuli such as high salt, low pH, glucose, and subinhibi -
tory antibiotic concentrations. srrAB and arlS  interfere with growth in 
microaerobic conditions and autolysis, respectively. srrAB  represses the 
expression of TSST-1 and protein A in microaerobic conditions,68 an 
observation that may be relevant for the pathogenesis of tampon-related In addition to these features, S. aureus is equipped with regulatory 
systems that sense environmental conditions and respond by fine-tuning the expression of given metabolic and virulence determinants (for review, see Novick and Geisinger,
61 Pragman and Schlievert,62 and Balasubra -
manian and colleagues63). Some aspects of this subtle adaptation 
machinery are described subsequently.
Regulation
At least three families of regulatory elements intertwine to adjust gene expression to specific environmental conditions: first, two-component regulatory systems, of which agr  (for accessory gene regulator) is a 
paradigm; second, DNA-binding proteins, largely represented by the Sar (for staphylococcal accessory regulator) family of proteins; and third, small regulatory RNAs.
agr and Other Two-Component  
Regulatory Systems
The paradigm of two-component regulatory systems virulence gene regulation is agr,  which is schematized in Fig. 194.3.
64 agr functions as 
a quorum sensing control that reacts to bacterial density, allowing the preferential expression of surface adhesins during the exponential phase of growth (low cell density) and switching to the expression of exoproteins during the postexponential and stationary growth phases (high cell density).
61,64,65 The switch is composed of two divergent operons (see 
Fig. 194.3). On the left hand, promoter P2 drives the transcription of a series of components that comprises (1) a transmembrane protein (AgrB); (2) an autoinducing peptide precursor (AgrD), which is processed and exported by membrane-spanning AgrB; (3) a transmembrane sensor (AgrC), which is the cognate receptor of the AgrD-derived autoinducing peptide; and (4) a transcription regulator (AgrA) that can be activated by AgrC. At low cell density (exponential growth phase), the P2 promoter ST5
HCA-MRSA
• BelgiumST5
HCA-MRSA
• USA
ST5
CA-MRSA
Pediatric
• USAST5
HCA-MRSA
• USA
ST5
HCA-MRSA
• New York
• Japan
ST5
HCA-MRSA
• France
• UK
ST5
HCA-MRSA
• SloveniaST228
HCA-MRSA
• GermanyST222
HCA-MRSA
• SloveniaST5
HCA-MRSA
• IrelandST308
HCA-MRSA
• Ireland
SSCmec
type IIISSCmectype II
SSCmectype I
SSCmectype IVST5-MSSA• Denmark• Netherlands• UK CC5
FIG. 194.2  Evolution of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) into methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) as exemplified 
by sequence type 5 (ST5). ST5 belongs to clonal cluster 5 (CC5), which gathers S. aureus isolates sharing homologies in five of the seven genes ( arcC, 
aroE, glpF, gmk, pta, tpi,  and yqiL) compared with method of multilocus sequence typing (MLST). Parental ST5 is an MSSA that has been isolated in 
several countries, including Denmark, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. It acquired various types of SCC mec at several independent occasions, 
probably from coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS) donor strains. After SCC mec acquisition, new MRSA clones followed their own geographic and 
genetic evolution, spreading either as HCA-MRSA (SCC mec I, II, or III) or CA-MRSA clones (SCC mec IV) and sometimes evolving into new ST types (e.g., 
ST222, ST228, and ST308). Three clonal clusters (CC5, CC8, and CC30) generated six of the seven major pandemic MRSA clones described over the past 3 decades. (Modified from Robinson DA, Enright MC. Evolutionary models of the emergence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2003;47:3926–3934.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2399Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
It controls the transcription of up to 355 genes (175 upregulated and 
180 downregulated), including capsule, and protein A and α-hemolysin 
genes in an agr-dependent way.66,71
Sigma factors ( σ) are another major mechanism of response to 
environmental stimuli. In bacteria, σ factors combine with and activate 
RNA polymerase to transcribe specific sets of genes. S. aureus  contains 
one σA and two alternative σB and σC. Alternative σB is important for 
the microbial response to a variety of stresses, including temperature, energy depletion, and chemical stimuli.
73 It acts mostly via the global 
regulatory network and affects the expression of up to 251 genes (198 positively, 53 negatively),
74 but also has some direct effect by activating 
the expression of coagulase and fibronectin-binding proteins at the early growth phase, and downregulating certain secreted proteins in the stationary phase. Mutants overexpressing σ
B were more virulent 
in experimental endocarditis, probably by increasing the expression of surface adhesins.
75 Conversely σB defective mutants were less infective 
in a model of catheter-related systemic infection.76
Small RNAs and Endoribonuclease III
Small RNAs (sRNAs) are increasingly recognized as major players in regulation of gene expression. They act mainly at the translational level via antisense hybridization with mRNA, where they can alter mRNA stability, hide RBSs from ribosome recognition, or conversely reveal RBSs that are hidden in secondary mRNA structures by unfolding these very structures. Alternatively, sRNA can also bind regulatory DNA-binding proteins, thus sequestering them from their original gene regulatory function. A genome-wide analysis generated a “Staphylococcal Regulatory RNA Database” (SRD; http://srd.genouest.org/) and identified at least 550 potential regulatory sRNAs. The best functionally character -
ized of them are RNAIII, which orchestrates the agr response, and 
RNAI, which regulates the replication of multiresistance plasmid pSK41.
In symmetry, posttranscriptional expression is also modulated by 
direct RNA alteration via endoribonuclease III (RNase III). This RNA double-stranded endonuclease plays a critical role in RNA processing and decay. It has been shown to modulate posttranscriptional expression through various mechanisms, including turnover of transcribed and nontranscribed RNAs, and by maturating the 5 ′ untranslated region 
(5′UTR) of the mRNAs of the cold-shock protein cpsA and maybe the 
protein A spa genes, to increase their stability and translation.
77
The regulatory network must be considered as a metabolic hub that 
integrates both external and internal information and responds in the most appropriate way. The observed phenotypes result from complex interplays among sometimes contradicting signals of sensors and transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulators, the understanding of which will require a systems biology approach.
78 Moreover, TSS (see later discussion).5 Both srrAB and arlS interact reciprocally 
with agr.62,65
DNA-Binding Proteins
sar is an important locus that encodes the DNA-binding protein SarA, 
which positively controls agr (Fig. 194.4), and maybe also sae and arlS.61,65 
In addition, sar  directly regulates adhesin genes (see Table 194.1). The 
sarA  transcripts peak at the end of the logarithmic phase of growth, 
thus promoting agr expression. Moreover, sarA  itself is transcribed 
downstream of three alternate promoters, which can themselves be regulated by as yet incompletely solved factors.
SarA is the prototype of a growing family of DNA-binding proteins 
that may drive a number of transcriptional activities, including the expression of housekeeping genes and phage-related genes. sarA  
homologues include sarR, sarS, sarT, sarV , sarU, sarY, rot, and mgrA.
62,65,71 
rot stands for “repressor of toxins” and counters toxin expression by 
repressing agr.72 Inactivation of rot partially restored the agr phenotype 
in agr-negative mutants, probably by alleviating a repressing effect on 
the downstream P3 cascade of the agr. This downstream cascade might 
be the target of several additional regulators that also affect the agr 
phenotype (see Fig. 194.4). mgrA  stands for multiple gene regulator.71 PAgrCAgrB
AgrCAgrBAIP
AIPRNAIII
PP2  P3AC DBAgrA
δ
Activation of
transcription
Translation
of exoproteinsA
BAgrA AgrA
RNAIIIP2  P3AC DB δ
FIG. 194.3  Schematic representation of Staphylococcus aureus 
global regulatory system agr (accessory gene regulator).  (A) System 
at rest. It consists of two divergent operons, transcribed from promoters 
P2 and P3. Promoter P2 encodes putative membrane protein AgrB, precursor of autoinducing peptide (AIP) AgrD, which is processed by AgrB; trans -
membrane receptor AgrC; and response regulator AgrA. Promoter P3 encodes δ-hemolysin and RNAIII. At low bacterial density, P2 and P3 are 
off and only a small amount of AIP is secreted because of promoter leakiness (A). As bacterial growth proceeds and bacterial density increases (B), chance 
of AIP encountering its cognate receptor AgrC increases. On contact, AgrC undergoes conformational change and phosphorylates (or dephosphorylates) response regulator AgrA. (B) Activated AgrA activates transcription from both P2 and P3, resulting in positive feedback. δ-Hemolysin is membrane-active protein toxic for eukaryotic cells. RNAIII is an intracellular regulator that acts in trans and regulates expression of many virulence genes, including 
numerous toxins (see Table 194.1). Although agr is pivotal in quorum-sensing 
regulation of gene expression, it is not the only regulator of pathogenic determinants in S. aureus. sar, saeRS, rot,  and other systems may affect 
the expression of agr itself or affect virulence genes directly (e.g., sar) or 
both (see Table 194.1). AC BagrRNAII agrRNAIII
P3 P2P2 P3
P1SarA
SarR SarSSarT SarU
Rot
Protein A
FIG. 194.4  Regulatory network of agr and Sar family of DNA-binding 
proteins. Intertwining of activation (green arrows) and repression (red 
arrows)  underlines complexity of system. Gene expression is further modu -
lated by additional factors, including alternative σB, arlS, sae, and srrAB, 
which can act on agr promoters or directly on specific genes. Gene promoters 
are denominated P1, P2, and P3 and represented by black lines.  (Modified 
from Pragman AA, Schlievert PM. Virulence regulation in Staphylococcus 
aureus: the need for in vivo analysis of virulence factor regulation. FEMS 
Immunol Med Microbiol. 2004;42:147–154.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2400Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
succeeded in taking advantage of such systems remains a fascinating 
question of evolutionary genetics.
The Journey to Invasive Disease
Although S. aureus is an innocuous resident of the skin and mucosal 
flora in up to 30% of the human population,20–22 healthy carriers are 
notoriously more prone than noncarriers to develop invasive S. aureus 
infections. This is exemplified by recurrent skin and wound or blood -
stream infections (BSIs), which are due to the patient’s own carriage strain in up to 80% of the cases.
21,24
Colonization of the anterior nares is ideal for microbial dissemina -
tion. Outward dissemination is illustrated in Fig. 194.5. A few drops of fluorescein were instilled intranasally in a volunteer, followed by ultraviolet imaging. Two hours after instillation, fluorescein was all over the hands and clothes, ensuring both sneezing-induced and contact dissemination.
Inward dissemination by host invasion is an opportunity for ample 
bacterial proliferation. Host invasion is often considered a bacterial dead end, because invading microorganisms may be destroyed by the immune system. However, this only holds true if the immune system can eliminate the invading organisms, which is mostly not the case with S. aureus (see “ Immune Evasion ” later). Alternatively, invading 
microbes can kill the host, but then incur the risk of disappearing with the decaying corpse. Nevertheless, although this is expected in humans wherein dead bodies are eliminated through burial or cremation, it is different in the wild, where scavengers eat corpses, thus contributing to further dissemination. As a result, S. aureus has little evolutionary pressure to dampen its invasive lifestyle—which comes in addition to commensalism—whereas it has ample reasons to withstand host defenses, including resistance to antibiotics.
Mucosal and Skin Colonization
Persistent mucosal and skin colonization is critical. Factors involved in attachment to nasal epithelia involve teichoic acids,
92 which may attach experimentally interrupting one of these circuitries may cause compensa -
tion by others, thus introducing biases in the observed phenotype. In this complex system, agr  appears to be a central switch toward which 
many other regulators converge (see Fig. 194.4).
Role in Pathogenesis
The intuitive agr -based model suggests that scattered growing bacteria 
produce primarily adhesins, promoting tissue colonization, whereas installed organisms that form dense populations switch to the production of hydrolytic enzymes and toxins for the purpose of feeding and escaping host defenses.
61,65 Accordingly, inactivation of the function of agr alone 
decreased pathogenicity in experimental models of tissue destruction (e.g., subcutaneous abscesses), where exoprotein production is likely to be important.
79 On the other hand, agr  inactivation did not much 
influence the course of experimental endocarditis, where bacterial surface adhesins are critical for valve colonization.
80 Indeed, although agr-negative 
mutants are hampered in exoprotein production, they are still fully equipped with surface-bound colonizing determinants (see Table 194.1 ). 
In contrast, inactivation of sar decreased infectivity in experimental 
endocarditis
80 because in addition to its effect on agr  expression (see 
Table 194.1 and Fig. 194.4), sar also acts directly on expression of 
surface-bound fibronectin-binding protein A (FnBPA), which promotes experimental endocarditis.
81,82
In addition, in vivo gene expression revealed a further level of 
complexity.62 For instance, although sar transcripts were detected in 
infected vegetations during experimental endocarditis, they were expressed from both P1 and P2 promoters, rather than only from the P1 promoter as observed in vitro.
83 Likewise, in vivo expression of 
several genes appeared dissociated from their control regulator as described in vitro. Although agr positively regulates TSST-1 in vitro 
(see Table 194.1), the toxin was still expressed by an agr-negative mutant 
in a rabbit model of TSS in vivo.
84 This may result from alternative 
regulation by other regulators that act either downstream of the agr 
locus or directly on the tss gene promoter. Eventually, agr-negative 
mutants can be recovered from clinical samples as in cystic fibrosis85 
and in carrier and bacteremic patients.86 Such agr -negative clinical 
isolates, and agr -negative laboratory mutants, have increased surface 
adhesins and an increased ability to form biofilms, and are found in chronic infections such as osteomyelitis and device infections.
87
Hence, the pathogenic implication of regulatory circuitries cannot be 
drawn merely from in vitro observations. In vivo experimentation reveals the plurality of S. aureus  infection forms, which may be variously altered 
by novel antivirulence therapies. For instance, inhibition of the agr loop 
by action on the autoinducing peptide impedes acute tissue destruction
79 
but might promote biofilm formation and chronic infection.87,88
Ecologic and Epidemiologic Implication of agr
Genetic and functional experiments revealed the existence of at least four agr groups in S. aureus, which were characterized by specific 
variations in all three AgrB, AgrD, and AgrC proteins (see Fig. 194.3).
89 
Whereas the autoinducing peptide of a given agr group stimulated 
signaling in other strains sharing the same agr group, it either cross-
inhibited (e.g., group I and group IV) or cross-activated (e.g., group I and group II) members of other groups. This suggests that certain antagonistic agr groups could be mutually exclusive with attempts to 
simultaneously colonize the same niche. However, studies regarding this hypothesis gave conflicting results. In particular, patients with cystic fibrosis colonized with S. aureus can successfully harbor organisms 
from two antagonistic agr groups.
90
Although agr and other global regulators control the timely expression 
of pathogenic genes, they are not bona fide pathogenic factors themselves. The agr locus has homologues in numerous nonpathogenic staphylococci. 
A phylogenic study of nonpathogenic CoNS indicated that variations in agr genes followed parallel variations in species-specific rRNA genes.
91 
In fact, agr groups diverged very early during the evolution of staphy-
lococci (see “ Comparative Genomics and Evolution ”) and represent a 
lineage marker of strains that evolve in distinct environments rather than a strategy to exclude potential competitors. Thus, global regulators were originally meant to control the expression of useful metabolic genes. How exogenous virulent genes, which were acquired later, 
FIG. 194.5  Example of environmental spread of bacteria colonizing 
the nose. A few drops of fluorescein were instilled in the anterior nares 
of a volunteer, who was left to go about his routine activities and was photographed under ultraviolet light 2 hours later. Fluorescein is found all over face, hands, and clothes, exemplifying the appropriateness of colonizing the nose to ensure rapid microbial spread. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2401Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)TABLE 194.3  Staphylococcus aureus MSCRAMMs Belonging to Sortase-Mediated Cell  
Wall–Associated Proteins
GENE PROTEIN AA SORTASE MOTIF LIGAND SPECIFICITYPOTENTIAL 
IMPLICATION IN DISEASE
Spa Protein A 508 SrtA LPETG Antibody Fc fragment (IgG, IgM) von 
Willebrand factor, TNFR1, plateletsExperimental sepsis, 
experimental osteoarthritis
clfA Clumping factor A 933 SrtA LPDTG Fibrinogen, platelets Experimental endocarditis
clfB Clumping factor B 913 SrtA LPETG Fibrinogen, cytokeratin 10, platelets Colonization of nasal mucosa
cna Collagen-binding protein 1183 SrtA LPKTG Collagen Experimental osteomyelitis, 
septic arthritis
fnA Fibronectin-binding protein A 1018 SrtA LPETG Fibronectin, fibrinogen, elastin Experimental endocarditis
Platelets Cell invasion, experimental 
mastitis
fnB Fibronectin-binding protein B 914 SrtA LPETG Fibronectin, fibrinogen, elastin, 
plateletsExperimental mastitis
sdrC Serine-aspartate repeat protein 947 SrtA LPETG Fibrinogen, cytokeratin of nasal 
epitheliaNasal colonization
sdrD Serine-aspartate repeat protein 1315 SrtA LPETG Fibrinogen, desmosomal desmoglein Nasal, deep skin colonization, 
biofilm
sdrE Serine-aspartate repeat protein 1166 SrtA LPETG Bridges fibrinogen and complement 
factor H on the S. aureus surfaceImmune evasion
pls Plasmin-sensitive protein 1637 SrtA LPDTG Cellular lipids, ganglioside M3; nasal 
epithelial cellsColonization of nasal mucosa
sraP
(or sasA)Serine-rich adhesin for platelets 2261 SrtA LPDTG Platelets Experimental endocarditis
IsdA Iron-regulated surface determinant A 354 SrtA LPKTG Fibrinogen, fibronectin Nasal colonization
(sasE) Hemoglobin/transferrin
IsdB Iron-regulated surface determinant B 645 SrtA LPQTG Hemoglobin/hemin Experimental bacteremia and 
renal abscesses
(sasJ)
isdC Iron-regulated surface determinant C 227 SrtB NPQTN Hemin Experimental bacteremia and 
renal abscesses
isdH
(or haR)Iron-regulated surface determinant H 895 SrtA LPKTG Haptoglobin/hemoglobin complex Nasal colonization
sasI Putative S. aureus surface protein I Undetermined Associated with bovine 
gangrenous mastitis strains
sasB S. aureus surface protein B 937 SrtA LPDTG Undetermined —
sasC S. aureus surface protein C 2186 SrtA LPNTG Intercellular adhesion Involved in biofilm
sasD S. aureus surface protein D 241 SrtA LPAAG Undetermined Involved in biofilm
sasF S. aureus surface protein F 637 SrtA LPKAG Undetermined —
sasG S. aureus surface protein G 1117 SrtA LPKTG Nasal epithelial cells Associated to invasive disease
Sas(or adsA)S. aureus surface protein H 308 SrtA LPKTG Cell wall associated adenosine synthase Escape phagocyte-induced 
killing
sasK S. aureus surface protein K 211 SrtA LPKTG Undetermined —
fmtB Formyl transferase B SrtA LPXTG Cell wall synthesis, β-lactam resistance Antibiotic resistance
AA, Protein length in amino acids; IgG, immunoglobulin G; IgM, immunoglobulin M; MSCRAMMs, microbial surface components recognizing adhesive matrix molecules; 
Srt, sortase; TNFR1, tumor necrosis factor receptor 1.
Modified from Roche FM, Massey R, Peacock SJ, et  al. Characterization of novel LPXTG-containing proteins of Staphylococcus aureus identified from genome sequences. 
Microbiology. 2003;149:643–654; Clarke S, Foster S. Surface adhesins of Staphylococcus aureus. Adv Microb Physiol . 2006;51:187–224; and Dedent A, Marraffini L, 
Schneewind O. Staphylococcal sortases and surface proteins. In: Fischetti V, Novick RP , Ferretti J, et  al, eds. Gram-Positive Pathogens . 2nd ed. Washington, DC: ASM Press; 
2006:486–495.to lectin glycoproteins on the surface of mucosal cells, fibrinogen-binding 
protein B (clumping factor B or ClfB), serine-aspartate rich proteins C and D (SdrC and SdrD), SasG, and IsdA (Table 194.3).
93–95 ClfB, SdrC, 
SdrD, SasG, and IsdA are members of a family of S. aureus  surface-bound 
proteins referred to as MSCRAMMs (for matrix surface components recognizing matrix molecules).
96 MSCRAMMs are covalently attached 
to the S. aureus peptidoglycan via the membrane-bound transpeptidase 
sortase A (SortA) (Fig. 194.6). SortA-attached proteins include at least 21 members,
97 some of them having functions different than host-matrix adherence (see Table 194.3). However, all to them are recognized by SortA at an LPXTG signature motif, cleaved by SortA between LPXT and G and covalently attached to the last G (glycine) residue of the peptidoglycan pentaglycine side chain (see Fig. 194.6).
98,99
ClfB, SdrC, and SdrD are able to bind fibrinogen and keratin in 
vitro. SdrD was also shown to bind desmoglein 1, a desmosomal transmembrane protein that binds epidermal cells to keratin,
100 which 
is likely to facilitate S. aureus persistence in deeper layer of keratinized 
epithelia. The epithelial ligand of SasG is not known, but SasG is involved 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2402Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
Fig. 194.4 and Table 194.3), that serve at least two purposes. On one 
hand, they encourage S. aureus attachment at the place of preexisting lesions.
81 On the other hand, they also act as immune camouflage 
factors against complement-induced phagocytosis by surrounding the bacterium with a shield of soluble fibrinogen and fibronectin  
(see Table 194.3).
109
Once attached to microthrombi, S. aureus may encourage further 
thrombus formation via the action of two secreted coagulases—coagulase (Coa) and von Willebrand–binding protein (vWbp). Coa and vWbp bind to prothrombin and induce a conformational change that converts it into active staphylothrombin.
110 Staphylothrombin is unique in that 
it polymerizes fibrinogen into fibrin and activates platelets even in blood anticoagulated via coumarin therapy, or exposed to heparin or calcium chelators.
Then, in order to avoid local trapping and hamper further spread, 
S. aureus needs to control local coagulation. To this end, coagulase is only transiently produced in the early exponential phase of growth. Moreover, S. aureus  can escape clots by secreting staphylokinase (Sak), 
a protease that activates host plasminogen into active plasmin, which in turn disintegrates fibrin clots
111 and promotes extension of local 
infections.112 Sak also cleaves complement opsonin C3b and preformed 
antibodies, contributing to the antiphagocytic properties of S. aureus (see “ Immune Evasion ” later). Sak is produced in both the early expo -
nential and the late stationary growth phases. Its gene (sak) is located, 
together with SCIN (for staphylococcal complement inhibiting protein) and CHIPS (for chemotaxis inhibitory protein of Staphylococcus ), on 
a so-called immune escape cluster (IEC) as part of a ϕSa3 β-hemolysin–
converting prophage, which is present in >90% of human S. aureus 
isolates, but usually not in animal isolates.
113,114 Thus, the ϕ Sa3 prophage 
and its IEC cargo are believed to participate to the S. aureus specificity 
for human hosts.
Contribution of Coagulation
It was originally thought that S. aureus surface MSCRAMMs would 
mediate direct binding to ligands present in target organs, such as binding to collagen via collagen-binding protein (Cna) in osteoarthritis.
115,116 
However, in the case of hematogenous dissemination, reaching the target organ requires prior S. aureus  extravasation from the microcirculation. 
It was shown that ClfA and FnBPA are critical to colonize and invade damaged or inflamed endothelia, and this presumably occurred by direct attachment to the injured tissues.
81 However, in the bloodstream, ClfA 
and FnBPA become rapidly saturated with soluble fibrinogen and fibronectin, which interfere with direct binding to injured vessels.
109 
Thus there is a missing link, which S. aureus circumvent by hijacking 
the coagulation system.117
While circulating S. aureus  organisms become saturated with soluble 
fibrinogen and fibronectin, ClfA and FnBPA induce a fibrinogen conformational change that triggers its docking to the platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor and activates platelets.
118 In addition, preexisting anti-ClfA 
or anti-FnBPA antibodies, if present, activate platelets by docking to the immunoglobulin G (IgG) platelet receptor Fc γRIIa. These microag -
gregates are then conveyed through the blood to inflamed endothelia or to nascent platelet-fibrin clots present on injured tissues, to which activated platelets attach.
The convergence of these S. aureus–platelet microaggregates to 
inflamed endothelia is further strengthened by the second staphyloco -
agulase vWbp.
110 vWbp has the dual capacity to activate blood coagulation 
and to bind endothelial-attached von Willebrand factor (vWF). vWF is secreted as monomer by inflamed endothelia or activated platelets. vWF monomers attach to injured tissues and polymerize into discrete strings floating in the vascular flow, which bind activated platelets and microaggregates in a sheer-dependent manner.
119 S. aureus–secreted 
vWbp binds on one hand to the floating WWF strings, and on the other hand to S. aureus– attached ClfA,
120 thus also favoring the halt of circulat -
ing S. aureus onto inflamed endothelia.
This platelet-staphylothrombin scenario was validated in experimental 
models of endovascular colonization and endocarditis, in which pro-phylaxis with antiplatelet (acetylsalicylic acid and ticlopidine) or antithrombin (dabigatran) agents successfully prevented S. aureus 
endovascular infections.
121,122 In contrast, coumarin anticoagulation, in biofilm formation, which is an ingredient of local persistence.101 
Likewise, the exact role of IsdA in nasal colonization is unclear. However, because IsdA is a heme-binding protein,
102 it might help acquire essential 
iron for the colonizing bacteria.95 Finally, S. aureus can also survive in 
a dormant state inside nasal epithelial cells.103 This is one reason, in 
addition to biofilm, that explains why it is difficult to eradicate chronic carriage, especially with antimicrobials that do not penetrate inside eukaryotes cells—for instance, β-lactams.
Whether the fibrinogen-binding capacity of ClfB, SdrC, and SdrD 
may facilitate further invasion in case of mucosal or skin breaches is not known. On the other hand, SasG (among few others) elicited an antibody response in patients with invasive S. aureus diseases,
97 a finding 
that supports its involvement in deep-seated infections.
Most interestingly, there is an as yet unexplained privileged liaison 
between S. aureus and chronic nasal carriers. In one study, S. aureus 
carrier and noncarrier volunteers had the nose disinfected and rein -
oculated with a mixture of four S. aureus  strains, including the carriage 
strain in case of chronic carriers. Over a few days, noncarriers tended to eliminate all inoculated strains, whereas chronic carriers eliminated all foreign strains and reselected their own.
104
In certain occurrences, mucosal or wound colonization with S. aureus  
may produce distant diseases such as SSSS or TSS. These issues are discussed in dedicated sections later.
Taken together, although the subtle relation between S. aureus and 
its host remains incompletely solved, it is critical to detect and eliminate S. aureus carriage in groups at risk of severe infection, such as patients undergoing operation,
26 dialysis patients,105 and possibly patients with 
prosthetic heart valves, in whom the 1-year mortality of S. aureus  valve 
infection is up to 50%.106
Host Invasion
Because S. aureus is nonmotile, invasion takes advantage of mucosal 
or skin breaches, where the microorganism engages with constitu -
ents of deeper tissue and blood compartments. The first encounters are constituents of microthrombi, which occur as a normal healing process of tissue breaches. S. aureus avidly binds to soluble fibrinogen and clotted fibrin via clumping factor A (ClfA)
107 and the fibrinogen-
binding domain of fibronectin-binding protein A (FnBPA).108 ClfA 
and FnBPA are SortA-LPXTG wall-associated MSCRAMMs (see LP
X
TGPeptidoglycan
Membrane
CytoplasmLPXTG NH2
+ +
+ +NH2
+ +
+ +LP
X
TGNH2
+ ++ +LP
X
T-Gly
5NH2Cleavage1 Retention2 Sortase3 Anchoring4
FIG. 194.6  Anchoring of gram-positive surface proteins to pepti -
doglycan through sortase-mediated processing of LPXTG consensus 
motif. During membrane translocation, amino-terminal leader sequence is clipped off. Protein is then transiently retained on cell surface through membrane-anchor domain, rich in positively charged amino acids at its intracellular carboxyl-terminal portion. LPXTG consensus region is then processed by sortase that clips between threonine and glycine (T-G) and transfers covalent bond to glycine acceptor in peptidoglycan meshwork. (Modified from Fischetti VA, Pancholi V, Schneewind O. Conservation of a hexapeptide sequence in the anchor region of surface proteins from gram-positive cocci. Mol Microbiol. 1990;4:1603–1605; Mazmanian SK, Ton-That H, Schneewind O. Sortase-catalysed anchoring of surface proteins to the cell wall of Staphylococcus aureus . Mol Microbiol . 2001;40:1049–1057; 
and Bradshaw WJ et  al. Molecular features of the sortase enzyme family . 
FEBS J. 2015;282:2097–2114.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2403Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)complex (MAC) is not effective against gram-positive bacteria, because 
their plasma membrane is physically protected from MAC by the thick peptidoglycan cell wall (for review see Zipfel
135).
The lectin and alternative complement pathways are triggered by 
PAMPs, which activate the lectin or alternative pathway-dependent convertases C4b2a and C3bBb. The convertases cleave C3 into C3a, which amplifies the chemoattractant loop, and C3b, which binds to staphylococcal teichoic acids and attracts phagocytes.
135 S. aureus 
counteracts complement-mediated opsonization by means of several mechanisms. First, as mentioned earlier, it can produce polysaccharidic capsules, hindering phagocyte access to teichoic acid–attached C3b. Second, it secretes Sak, which cleaves C3 and C3b. Third, it produces staphylococcal complement inhibitory protein SCIN, which binds to and inhibits the C4b2a and C3bBb convertases, thus blocking the production of C3a and C3b.
111 Like Sak, SCIN and CHIPS are located 
on the ϕSa3 prophage EIC.113 They are expressed in the exponential 
phase of growth, whereas Sak is also expressed later in the late stationary growth phase.
111
A fourth mechanism involves secreted extracellular fibrinogen binding 
protein (Efb), a dual adhesin capable of binding bacterial-attached C3b proximally, and soluble fibrinogen distally. As a result, Efb contributes an additional external fibrinogen shield, preventing the contact of neutrophils with C3b.
136
Finally, a most astounding host-hijacking mechanism is conferred 
by SortA-LPXTG anchored SdrE. In addition to binding fibrinogen in vitro, SdrE binds to and attracts complement factor H on the S. aureus 
surface.
137 Factor H is a complement regulatory protein that normally 
binds to host cells and accelerates the decay of C3b in order to protect them from nonspecific assaults from self-host defenses. By attracting factor H on the S. aureus surface, SdrE usurps the complement host 
control system to its advantage.
Resisting Oxidative Burst
Activated neutrophils trigger oxidative burst and bacterial killing via NADPH oxidase and myeloperoxidase (MPO), or via nitric inducible oxide synthase (iNOS).
138 The cascade uses superoxide (O 2−) to produce 
highly oxidative molecules such as H 2O2 or hypochlorous acid (HOCl). 
Oxidation results in protein, lipid, and nucleic acid damage that can kill pathogens either extracellularly or inside phagolysosomes. Extracel -
lular oxidative burst is exemplified by the neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), which are constituted of neutrophil granules and chromatin proteins and contain up to 80% of neutrophil-released MPO.
139 S. aureus  
can disable these mechanisms by reducing enzymes such as catalase, which converts H
2O2 to water and O 2, or direct rescue of oxidized 
molecules by means of several reducing agents listed in Table 194.4.
Resisting Antimicrobial Peptides
Insects and animals produce an array of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) consisting most often of 20– to 100–amino acid pore-forming β-sheet structures.
140 Human produces various AMPs in skin and mucosal tissues, 
and large quantities that are stored in granules of neutrophils and platelets (see “ Contribution of Coagulation ” earlier). A hallmark of these AMPs 
is that they are positively charged and are attracted by the negatively charged wall teichoic acids (Fig. 194.7) and membrane phospholipids of the gram-positive bacterial envelope. S. aureus  modulates its suscep -
tibility to AMPs by modulating its surface charge, either by means of the d-alanine lipoteichoic acid ligase (dlt) operon, which decorates 
teichoic acids with alanine residues, or by means of a lysyltransferase that transfers lysine residues to membrane phospholipids.
141,142 Both 
mechanisms result in a more positively charged bacterial envelope and thus in AMP repulsion. In particular, successful endocarditis S. aureus 
strains were shown to be consistently resistant to platelet-secreted PMPs,
125 a property that may discourage the development of AMPs for 
therapeutic purposes.
Killing Leukocytes
S. aureus kills eukaryotic cells via secreted hemolysins, leukocidins, and phenol-soluble modulins (PSMs).
11,143,144 There are four types of 
hemolysins, referred to as α-hemolysin (Hla), β-hemolysin (Hlb), δ-hemolysin (Hld), and 
γ-hemolysin (Hlg).which relies on a different mechanism, did not prevent experimental endovascular infection.
Of note, platelet activation may be a double-edged sword in that 
platelet degranulation produces platelet-microbicidal peptides (PMP) that destabilize bacterial membranes and can kill bacteria.
123 However, S. 
aureus  strains that produce successful endovascular infection are known 
to resist PMP-induced killing via plasma membrane modification.124,125
Eventually, inflamed endothelial cells also express α5β1 integrins, 
which bind soluble fibronectin and normally act as a landing runway for neutrophils. However, α5β1-bound fibronectin also promotes S. aureus  attachment via FnBPA, which triggers active bacterial internaliza -
tion by endothelial cells.
81 Local tissue destruction ensues, and more 
specific molecules can enter into action, including specific MSCRAMMs (e.g., Cna),
115,116 biofilm facilitating factors,126 hemolysins, and immune 
evasion molecules.
Immune Evasion
Along with invasion and tissue colonization, S. aureus has to confront 
several layers of host defenses against which it applies an extremely sophisticated immune evasion armamentarium, which is briefly described in the following sections (Table 194.4) (for review, see Foster,
9 Kim and 
colleagues,127 and Guerra and colleagues128).
Escaping Phagocytosis
The first line of anti– S. aureus host defense is phagocyte engulfment, 
primarily by neutrophils, either by direct recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs),
129 or via complement-mediated 
opsonization. Direct PAMP recognition is hampered by the production of polysaccharidic capsules (mostly type 5 or 8 in human S. aureus 
isolates), which are not recognized by professional phagocytes and physically block their access to underlying PAMPs, such as teichoic acids, lipoteichoic acids, peptidoglycan, and even C3b complement opsonins attached to these PAMP structures.
In addition, S. aureus uses several secreted and SortA-LPXTG 
anchored surface factors to counters phagocytosis. Secreted factors include the chemotaxis inhibitory protein CHIPS
111 and the extracellular 
adherence protein Eap (or Map).130 CHIPS belongs to the ϕSa3 prophage 
IEC and blocks the neutrophil receptor for formyl-peptides, a universal signature of bacterial protein synthesis, and the C5a receptor for che -
motaxis.
111 Eap binds intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) and 
fibrinogen and vitronectin, and blocks leukocyte adhesion and neutrophil recruitment mediated by β2-integrin and urokinase receptors in vitro 
and in vivo.
130
SortA-LPXTG anchored molecules include protein A (Spa), ClfA, 
and adenosine synthase A (AdsA, also called SasA) (see Tables 194.3 
and 194.4). Spa blocks antibody-mediated phagocytosis by binding IgGs by their Fc fragments and exposing the Fab fragments instead, which are not recognized by complement.
127 ClfA interferes with phagocytosis 
in a fibrinogen-dependent manner (probably by bacterial shielding) and an as yet unclear fibrinogen-independent manner.
131 AdsA converts 
adenosine monophosphate into adenosine, a dual immuno-modulator compound that has proinflammatory antiinflammatory properties.
132 
S. aureus– generated adenosine was shown to impede neutrophil-mediated 
bacterial clearance and to promote abscess formation in a mouse model of sepsis and kidney abscess.
133
Luring Complement
If not directly triggered by PAMPs, phagocytosis may be promoted by complement-mediated opsonization. The lectin and the alternative complement pathways are mainly involved against S. aureus . The classical 
pathway, which requires prior antibodies, is largely hampered protein A (Spa) and Sak, as mentioned earlier,
9 and by secreted staphylococcal 
binder of immunoglobulin (Sbi).134 Sbi is both secreted and loosely 
attached to the bacterial envelope. Its envelope-attached form binds immunoglobulin Fc fragments similarly to Spa, and its secreted form binds complement factor H and C3d, which accelerate the decay of preopsonin C3. Soluble Sbi-C3d-factor H complexes also bind the complement receptor CR2 of B lymphocytes, promoting their apoptosis and impeding antibody production.
127 In addition, direct complement-
induced bacterial killing via the C8-C9 polymerization membrane attack 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2404Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
TABLE 194.4  Main Immune Evasion Determinants
INTERFERENCE 
WITH DETERMINANT LOCATIONFREQUENCY IN STAPHYLOCOCCUS AUREUS ISOLATES ACTION
Neutrophil chemotaxis, 
migration and 
phagocytosisPolysaccharidic capsule 
(mainly types 5 and 8)Core genome 20%–60% Not recognized as PAMPsSteric blockage of neutrophil access to deeper cells wall 
structures including wall attached C3 and C3b
CHIPS(chemotaxis inhibitory 
protein of Staphylococcus)ϕSa3 IEC >60% Blocks neutrophil C5a receptorBlocks neutrophil formyl-peptide receptor
Eap (or MAP)(extracellular adherence 
protein)Core genome >95% Interferes with neutrophil migration and extravasation by 
blocking the docking of neutrophil LFA-1 to endothelial ICAM-1
(See anticomplement activity below)
AdsA (or SasH)(adenosine synthase A)Core genome 70%–80% Converts adenosine monophosphate to adenosine 
Interferes with inflammation and phagocytosis
Complement SdrE (serine-aspartate repeat 
protein)Core genome 40%–60% AntiopsonicBinds factor H on the S. aureus surface
SCIN ϕSa3 IEC >60% AntiopsonicInhibits lectin and alternative complement pathwaysBinds to and inhibits the C3 convertases C4b2 and C3bBb, 
thus blocking the generation of the C3b opsonin
Sak (staphylokinase) ϕSa3 IEC >60% AntiopsonicConverts plasminogen into plasmin which cleaves fibrin 
(solubilizing clots), IgGs, and bacterial attached C3b
(See anti-AMP activity below)
Eap (or MAP)(extracellular adherence 
protein)Core genome >95% AntiopsonicInhibits classical and lectin complement pathwaysBinds to and inhibits C3 convertase C4b2 and further 
C3b-mediated opsonization
Efb (extracellular fibrinogen-
binding protein)IEC2 60%–70% AntiopsonicBinds C3 components and fibrinogenBinds to staphylococcal wall-attached C3b and attracts 
plasma fibrinogen over it, thus shielding it from recognition by neutrophils
Ecb (Extracellular 
complement binding protein)IEC2 >95% AntiopsonicBlocks binding of the neutrophil complement receptor CR1 
to bacterial-attached C3b, thus preventing phagocytosis
Oxidative burst SodA and SodM(super oxide dismutases)Core genome Convert superoxide radicals to H
2O2 and O 2 (using 
manganese as a co-factor)
KatA (catalase) Core genome Converts H 2O2 into H 2O and O 2
AhpC and AhpF(alkyl hydroperoxide 
reductases)Core genome Convert H
2O2 to H 2O and O 2
Convert alkyl hydroperoxides to alcohol and water
bNOS (bacterial nitric oxide 
synthase)Core genome Scavenges HOCl (hypochlorous acid).
BacillithiolCoenzyme AStaphyloxanthinCore genome Protection by S-thiolation of oxidants
Antioxidant mechanism unclear
Antimicrobial peptides 
(AMPs)Dlt (
d-alanine (lipo)teichoic 
acid ligase)Core genome >95% Neutralizes negatively charged wall surface by alanine 
substitution of ribitol teichoic and lipoteichoic acids
Decreases surface affinity for positively charged AMPs
MprF (muropetide resistance 
factor)Core genome >95% Idem by adding l-lysine residues to phosphatidylglycerol at 
the extracellular side of the plasma membrane
Sak (staphylokinase) ϕSa3 IEC Proteolytic degradation of fibrin (via plasmin activation), 
C3 components, IgGs, and AMPs
Aur (aureolysin) Core genome Proteolytic cleavage of cathelicidin AMPs
Leukocyte lysis Hla (α-hemolysin) Core genome Forms heptamer barrels in the plasma membrane of target 
cells
Hlg (γ-hemolysin) Core genome >95% Bicomponent leukocidinLyses both erythrocytes and leukocytes
Luk E/D (leukocidin E/D) Genomic 
island beta30%–40% Synergohymenotropic bicomponent leukodicin
Luk F/M (leukocidin F/M) ϕSa1 Synergohymenotropic bicomponent leukocidin
Panton-Valentine leukocidin ϕSa2 2%–4% Synergohymenotropic bicomponent leukocidin
Hld (delta-hemolysin) Core genome >95% Idem phenol-soluble modulins (PSMs) below
PSM alpha 1–4PSM beta-1 and 2(phenol-soluble modulins)Core genome 100% Phagocyte lysis by membrane destabilizationMechanism analogous to the delta-hemolysin mechanism 
of membrane damage
AMPs, Antimicrobial peptides; ICAM-1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ligand of LFA-1); IEC, immune escape cluster; IgG, immunoglobulin G; LFA-1, lymphocyte 
function-associated antigen h1; MAP , major histocompatibility complex class II analogous protein; PAMPs, pathogen associated molecular patterns; ϕSa1 to ϕSa3, 
Stapylococcus prophages 1 to 3; SasH, Staphylococcus surface protein H; SCIN, staphylococcal complement inhibitory protein.
Modified from McCarthy AJ and Lindsay JA. Staphylococcus aureus innate immune evasion is lineage-specific: a bioinfomatics study. Infect Genet Evol. 2013;19:7–14; 
Lindsay JA. S. aureus evolution: lineages and mobile genetic elements (MGEs). In: Lindsay J, ed. Staphylococcus aureus Molecular Genetics. Norfolk, UK: Casiter Academic 
Press; 2008:45–69; and Peakock SJ, et  al. Virulent combinations of adhesin and toxin genes in natural populations of Staphylococcus aureus. Infect Immun. 
2002;70:4987–4996.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2405Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
lyses white blood cells in addition to other cells and is sometimes referred 
to as leukocidin. It is encoded by two distinct operons, one that encodes a unique HlgA (S protein) and another that encodes for one S protein (HlgC) and one F protein (HlgB). S and F proteins must assemble to form membrane-perforating complexes. Therefore, this class of hemolysins is also referred to as synergohymenotropic toxins. Active α-Hemolysin 
exists in two bioactive forms: HlgA-HlgB and HlgA-HlgC.
Panton-valentine leukocidin.  PVL is a peculiar homologue of Hlg, 
which was originally reported in 1932 by Panton and Valentine.150,151 
PVL is encoded by two genes, lukS and lukF,  which can assemble either 
between themselves or with the components of Hlg, thus producing chimera complexes. Like the other hemolysins, PVL is regulated by agr 
(see Table 194.1). Unlike the other hemolysins, PVL is encoded by mobile phages, including ϕSLT, ϕSa2958, ϕSa2MW , ϕPVL, ϕ108PVL, 
ϕ7247PVL, ϕSa119, ϕTCH60, and ϕSa2USA, which can transfer PVL 
to other strains.
151,152 Also unlike the other hemolysins, the prevalence 
rate of PVL is usually low ( ≤2%) in MSSA and health care–associated 
MRSA (HCA-MRSA),150 whereas it is present in almost 100% of isolates 
of the community-acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA) USA300 cluster, which is peculiarly prevalent in North America.
151,153
PVL-producing S. aureus is associated with skin and soft tissue 
infection (SSTI) and severe hemorrhagic pneumonia in children and young adults.
154 In contrast, it is rarely responsible for other infec -
tions, such as osteomyelitis, septicemia, and endocarditis. The reason for clustering in young patients is unclear. The clustering could be linked to an age-related permissive milieu or permissive immunologic window. Nevertheless, the connection is important; a young adult with recurrent boils and pneumonia should receive particular atten -
tion because the mortality rate of hemorrhagic lung disease is high  
(Fig. 194.8).
Escaping Cell-Mediated Immunity
Among the first lines of skin and mucosal innate defenses are γ/δ T cells and antigen-presenting Langerhans cells. γ/δ T cells are not major 
histocompatibility complex (MHC) restricted and respond to epithelial stress and injury. They promote healing via the production of growth factors and attract neutrophils and T cells via the production of IL-17A,
155 
which also upregulates the production of AMPs.156 Stimulation of Hla and Hld are secreted in nontoxic soluble forms and multimer -
ize on eukaryotic membranes to form lytic pores. α-Hemolysin (or 
α-toxin) is involved in a great variety disease.145,146 It multimerizes as 
heptamers on phosphocholine-containing membranes, a process which depends on the presence of host cell transmembrane protein ADAM10, which reunifies both metalloprotease and disintigrin (integrin-binding) properties.
147 Moreover, α-hemolysin interferes with adherens junc -
tion proteins to induce cell killing, most notably plekstrin-homology domain-containing protein 7 (PLEKHA7). Indeed, PLEKHA7-deficient cells can readily recover from Hla cytotoxicity.
148 Hence, polymor -
phism in this determinant could influence individual susceptibility  
to infection.
Hld acts in a similar way and belongs to the same family as PSMs, 
which were described more recently.144 There are four PSM α types 
(PSM α1–4), consisting of approximately 20 amino acids, and two PSM β 
types (PSMβ 1–2), consisting of approximately 40 amino acids, the genes 
for which are located on the staphylococcal chromosome. Hld is located upstream of agr RNAIII regulatory RNA (see “ Regulation ” section). 
The structure of Hld and PSMs consists of amphipathic α-helices, which 
confer several properties aside from membrane cell damage, including biofilm turnover and inflammatory responses.
149
Hlb is distinctive because it is a sphingomyelinase that damages 
membranes by means of enzymatic alteration of their lipid content.
Hlg is also peculiar in that it is composed of two types of proteins 
called S and F , for slow and fast elution at chromatography. It promptly Biofilm
Caps
LPS
OM
LProt
PGN
MbPOLTA TASurface proteins
Gram negative Gram positive
FIG. 194.7  Schematic representation of gram-negative (left) and 
gram-positive (right)  bacterial envelopes.  Gram-negative bacteria have 
very thin peptidoglycan (PGN) and an outer membrane (OM), made of 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which are not present in gram-positive bacteria. 
Peptidoglycan is very conserved and constituted of glycan chains made of 
N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid disaccharide subunits, in 
which the N-acetylmuramate moiety is linked to highly conserved penta-peptide or tetrapeptide stems (
L-alanine– D-isoglutamine– L-lysine– D-alanine–
D-alanine). The chains of disaccharide peptide are cross-linked via peptide 
bridges between the penultimate D-alanine and the diamino acid L-lysine 
located in position 3 of a neighboring stem peptide. In S. aureus, the 
interpeptide bridge typically contains a polyglycine linking piece that comprises one to five glycine residues. The addition of glycines to the wall precursors is driven by the femABC and fmhB genes (see Fig. 194.13). 
Teichoic acids (TA) represent up to 50% of the dry weight of purified 
staphylococcal walls and are made of polyribitol-phosphate polymers cross-linked to N-acetylmuramic acid residues of the peptidoglycan and decorated with 
D-alanine and N-acetylglucosamine residues. Lipoteichoic 
acids (LTA) are the plasma membrane–bound counterparts of teichoic acids. 
They are made of polyglycerol phosphates chains and are linked to a diacylglycerol moiety that serves as a plasma membrane anchor. TA and LTA are not present in gram-negative bacteria. Caps, Capsule; Lprot, 
lipoprotein; Mb, plasma membrane; PO, porin. (Modified from Gotz F, 
Bannerman T, Schleifer K-H. The genera Staphylococcus and Macrococcus. 
In: Balows A, Truper AG, Dworkin M, et  al, eds. The Prokaryotes. Vol. 4. 
New York: Springer Science+Business Media; 2006:41–75.)
FIG. 194.8  Fulminant hemorrhagic pneumonia in 20-year-old patient 
infected with Panton-Valentine leukocidin–producing Staphylococcus 
aureus. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2406Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
neonates and infants younger than 1 year and rarely in adults. It is 
typically the result of mucosal or skin colonization (e.g., umbilical cord) with a toxigenic S. aureus strain that produces either ETA or ETB, encoded by the eta and etb genes, respectively. The toxin genes are 
located either on a phage (eta)
8 or on a plasmid (etb). Two additional 
isoforms of SSSS toxins (exfoliative toxins C [ETC] and D [ETD]) were isolated through pathologic observations in animals and with genome screen, but seem not to be involved in humans.
167,168
A US study estimated the annual incidence of SSSS to be 8 cases 
per million US children, increasing to 45 cases per million in children younger than 2 years.
169 The crude inpatient mortality was low (0.33%) 
and similar to that in children without SSSS sharing comparable clinical conditions.
169 Similar figures were reported in France.4 SSSS is often 
related to S. aureus infections or carriage in close contacts, and may evolve as small epidemics that result from clonally related strains, usually in nurseries. Nasal carriage of the organism may be found among the medical staff, and all caretakers should be screened for this possibility. The proportion of S. aureus  carrying eta  or etb in overall staphylococcal 
nasal carriers or clinical isolates is low ( ≤2% of isolates),
170 which explains 
the rarity of the disease and its clustering in favorable milieus.
The toxins act by a direct effect on the stratum granulosum of the 
epidermis. Mucosa are never involved. This consideration is important for differential diagnosis with more severe Lyell syndrome, which usually involves mucosa.
3 Lyell syndrome, or toxic epidermal necrolysis, results 
from cleavage below the dermoepidermal junction. It is associated with a reaction to more than 100 drugs and sometimes vaccination and has a high fatality rate.
Molecular Pathogenesis of Staphylococcal 
Scalded Skin Syndrome
The toxin is released by staphylococci locally, passes through the body, 
and localizes at the level of the stratum granulosum. The toxin is a glutamate-specific serine protease whose molecular target is desmoglein-1 (Dsg1). Dsg1 is a transmembrane desmosomal glycoprotein that is important to maintenance of interkeratinocyte adhesion.
171 The human 
skin harbors four Dsg isoforms (Dsg1 to Dsg4) that are localized in various layers of the epidermis, but only Dsg1 is present at the level of the stratum granulosum and is the target of SSSS toxins, which remove its amino-terminal extracellular domain.
172
An incompletely solved question is why the disease primarily affects 
children and adults with peculiar skin diseases. One hypothesis is that the toxin targets Dsg1 in the vicinity of the cell membrane ganglioside (GM4), which is present only in the skin of young children or in adults with peculiar skin diseases. This could explain the clustering of SSSS in these particular populations. GM4-like gangliosides are present in the skin of suckling mice and can inhibit the effect of the toxin when coincubated before injection to susceptible animals.
3 The toxin has a 
serine protease activity, but only after it has reached the skin, which neutrophils by IL-17A decreased the severity of experimental S. aureus  
SSTIs and facilitated S. aureus nasal eradication.156,157 Thus, γ/δ T cells 
and the production of IL-17A comprise an important nonspecific first-line defense against invading microbes. Besides, Langerhans cells should phagocytose invading organisms and present surface antigens to boost humoral immunity, thus completing the continuum from innate to acquired host immunity.
However, S. aureus is well equipped to counter recognition by 
phagocytes and migration of neutrophil and lymphocytes, and impede cytokine-mediated cell recruitment and antibody production, includ -
ing Eap (or Map), which interferes with lymphocyte migration,
130 Spa, 
Sbi,134 and Sak (see “ Escaping Phagocytosis ” earlier). In addition, the 
most impressive interference of S. aureus with cell immunity is the 
ubiquitous production of SAgs, which trigger massive and nonspecific activation of the T-lymphocyte compartment, resulting in TSS.
2 One 
consequence of this T-cell distraction is immune paralysis and anergy. SAgs also aggravate atopic dermatitis and psoriasis by promoting local inflammation, serum suffusion, and access to nutrients.
158 SAgs, of which 
TSST-1 is a paradigm, are discussed in the “ Superantigens ” section later.
Producing Biofilm
Biofilm is an ultimate way to settle and escape host defenses. It consists in an extracellular polysaccharidic and proteinaceous meshwork that gathers bacterial communities within a mechanically cohesive scaffold. Biofilm-trapped bacteria cannot be physically phagocytized, a phenom -
enon referred to as frustrated phagocytosis,
159 and are dormant.88 As 
result, they are phenotypically tolerant to antibiotic-induced killing.
Biofilm formation is a major therapeutic problem.160 It was widely 
described in CoNS but is also formed by S. aureus, especially in the 
settings of colonization of catheters and biomaterials. Biofilm-producing staphylococci were associated with persistence and virulence in various experimental models, including Caenorhabditis elegans and mice with foreign-body infection.
161
Biofilm formation evolves in three steps, starting with nonspecific 
adherence of individual cells to the materials, followed by growth and biofilm formation, and ending with detachment of surface bacteria. In CoNS, it is associated with the production of polysaccharide intercellular adhesion (PIA), which consists of β-1,6-glucosamine chains that are N-substituted with succinate residues.
162 PIA is synthesized by an operon 
called ica composed of a regulator (icaR) and biosynthetic (icaADBC) 
genes.163
An ica homologue has also been described in S. aureus. Its role in 
colonizing amorphous surfaces might be identical to that shown in CoNS. However, its role in disease initiation is debated.
164 In S. aureus, 
biofilm production relates to a large network of genes including surface-attached and secreted proteins in addition to complex regulatory cir -
cuitries.
126 For instance, although biofilm deep-seated bacteria must 
express adherence molecules, surface bacteria must be prone to detach in order to colonize additional organs. Detachment depends on, among other factors, agr expression, which represses expression of adhesins 
and promotes that of secreted factors including PSMs.
87 In turn, PSMs 
are involved in remodeling biofilm surfaces and creating channels to feed inner parts of the structure.
165 Thus, ica  could be a relatively ancestral 
colonization mechanism that is still present in S. aureus  but is surpassed 
by more effective means.
Taken together, the myriad immune evasion strategies collected by 
S. aureus highlight its remarkable adaptation to the animal world and make it a major challenge for host defense-mediated elimination. This explains the as yet unsuccessful attempts to develop an antibacterial vaccine against it, leaving only hope for antitoxin neutralizing vaccines, which will not eradicate the bacterium but might help reduce tissue destruction and disease symptoms.
Exfoliative Toxins and Staphylococcal 
Scalded Skin Syndrome
SSSS is a superficial skin disorder that varies from local blistering to 
impressive generalized scalding (Fig. 194.9). It was originally described by the German physician Baron Gotfried Ritter von Rittershain, who published a series of 297 cases in young children in 1878.
166 Hence, the 
syndrome is sometimes referred to as Ritter disease. SSSS clusters in 
FIG. 194.9  Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome. Blisters are expres-
sion of toxin-related (exfoliative toxin A or B) distant disease and usually 
do not contain microorganisms. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2407Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)class II complex by specific contacts with the five variable domains of 
the α and β chain of the T-cell receptor (V β, Dβ, Jβ, Vα, Jα).
SAgs can bypass this highly specific interaction. They attach to an 
external portion of the V β domain from large quantities of lymphocytes 
and directly wedge them to the MHC class II receptors of antigen-presenting cells. This nonspecific contact activates up to 20% of the total pool of T cells, instead of approximately 1 per 10,000 during normal antigen presentation. The consequence is a massive burst in cytokine release, which drives an overwhelming inflammatory response that results in endotoxin-like shock, including endothelial leakage, hemo -
dynamic shock, multiorgan failure, and possibly death.
S. aureus can produce a large number of SAgs. Aside from TSST-1, 
it can produce at least 15 different enterotoxins (SEs A, B, C
n, D, E, G, 
H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O), which by definition are emetic when administered to rodents. However, the nomenclature has become more complicated with the discovery of enterotoxin homologues that did not have emetic properties, and which are now called SEl, for “staphylococcal enterotoxin-like, ” followed by specific letterings.
173 Moreover, additional screens have 
revealed a family of at least 14 proteins based on homologies in the conserved C- and N-terminal domains of SAgs.
174 These proteins do 
not bind MHC class II molecules but can variously interact with immunoglobulins and complement. They are referred to as SSL for “staphylococcal superantigen-like” and tend to cluster together on staphylococcal pathogenicity islands (discussed in the “ Genomics and 
Mobile Genetic Elements ” section later).
Although quite some variation exists in the primary structure of 
many SAgs, they all share a common architecture, as shown with crystallography. They consist of A and B globular domains, which are made of β -sheet barrels and α -helices and rejoined by a discrete linking 
piece. In TSST-1, the region binding to the V β chain of the T-cell 
receptor has been mapped at the A-B hinge region.
A genealogy of SAgs was built on the base of their sequence homolo -
gies. The SAgs studied were segregated into five groups.
5 Group I was 
represented only by TSST-1. Group III contained only staphylococcal SAgs (SEs H, I, K, L, and P), and group IV contained only streptococcal SAgs (SPs E, C, G, and SME Z). On the other hand, groups II and V contained both staphylococcal and streptococcal SAgs. Group II contained staphylococcal SEs B, C, and G and streptococcal SSA and SPE A, and group V contained staphylococcal SEs I, K, L, and P and streptococcal SPs E and H. This underlines the likelihood of horizontal gene transfer between these two genera, a fact that is becoming increasingly apparent with genome comparisons.
2
Toxic Shock Syndrome
TSS has been sporadically reported as staphylococcal scarlet fever since 1927.
175 Interest in TSS dramatically increased in the early 1980s, when 
a number of staphylococcal TSS cases occurred in young women who used high-absorbency tampons during menses.
176 The disease was 
associated with a toxin called TSST-1 that was secreted locally by toxigenic strains. TSST-1 and other SAgs can cross the mucosal membrane by several means. At the level of mechanical barriers, tight junctions are not uniformly present on mucosal surfaces, and staphylococcal Hla may help further disrupt their surface. At the level of SAgs, a conserved dodecapeptide (YNKKKATVQELD) was shown to mediate transcytosis of the toxin to deeper mucosal layers, promoting contact with immune cells and triggering inflammation—a phenomenon referred to as outside-in signaling mechanism.
5,177 There are two clinical forms of TSS: menstrual 
TSS and nonmenstrual TSS.
Menstrual Toxic Shock Syndrome
Menstrual TSS starts within 2 days of the beginning or the end of menses and is primarily associated with the use of high-absorbency tampons. Clinical signs include high fever, capillary leak syndrome with hypotension and hypoalbuminemia, generalized nonpitting edema, and a morbilliform rash, followed by desquamation after a few days. The toxin is produced locally, and blood culture results are typically negative. The organisms responsible were represented by a single clone in most reported cases.
The disease proceeds by SAg-induced hyperactivation of the immune 
system (see previous discussion). TSST-1 production is regulated by suggests that a locally induced conformational change is needed  
for activity.
Clinical Aspects
The two forms of SSSS are a generalized form and a localized form. In the generalized form, the toxin spreads throughout the body and localizes at the level of the skin, where it produces generalized scalding (see Fig.  
194.9). The skin easily detaches by mere rubbing (Nikolsky sign). The blister liquid is clear. Because scalding is the expression of a distantly secreted toxin, the responsible staphylococci are usually not found in the lesions. The disease is self-limited and wanes within 4 to 5 days, which probably parallels the appearance of specific antitoxin immuno -
globulins. Indeed, in addition to age-related expression of GM4 or other specific factors in the skin, the presence of antitoxin antibodies in older children and adults also explains the restriction of SSSS to the younger age groups.
The localized form of SSSS is sometimes referred to as bullous 
impetigo (Fig. 194.10). It results from the local spread of the toxin around a colonized wound in individuals who already bear some immunity against the toxin, as is the case in neonates still benefiting from passive maternal immunity (often around the umbilicus), or in older individuals 
who are already immunized. The presence of antibodies hinders distant dissemination of the toxin but not local spread around the colonized area. Unlike the generalized form, scalding is localized and the blister liquid often contains bacteria and sometimes white blood cells.
Patients may have general symptoms that include fever and lethargy, 
especially in the generalized form. Treatment includes general measures such as antiseptic wound dressing and fluid support, specific antibiotic therapy to eradicate the causative agent, and screening and decontamina -
tion of caretakers, especially in nurseries. If appropriately handled, the prognosis of SSSS in children is usually good and, as mentioned, the mortality rate far less than 5%.
169 In contrast, the mortality rate can be 
very high in adults ( >50%) and is usually associated with an underlying 
condition.
As mentioned, the differential diagnosis with Lyell syndrome (toxic 
epidermal necrolysis) is critical because the etiology, treatment, and prognosis of the diseases are different. In doubtful cases, skin biopsy is useful to provide the definitive answer.
Superantigens
TSST-1 and staphylococcal enterotoxins (SEs) are the paradigm of a large family of pyrogenic exotoxins called superantigens.
2,5,173 SAgs are proteins 
that do not activate the immune system by means of normal contact between antigen-presenting cells and T lymphocytes. Normally, antigens are taken up by antigen-presenting cells, hydrolyzed, and presented as restricted peptides to cognate T lymphocytes. The peptides are expressed within a groove on the MHC class II receptor on the surface of the antigen-presenting cell. Cognate T cells recognize the peptide–MHC 
FIG. 194.10  Localized staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome, also 
called bullous impetigo.  Disease is caused by local production of exfoliative 
toxins, and bacteria may be found in blister liquid. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2408Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
necessitates aggressive treatment with generous surgical débridement 
of infected tissues, and sometimes amputation.
Therapy and Prevention
Treatment of staphylococcal TSS consists of elimination of the causative agent with antibiotic treatment and appropriate drainage of affected tissues if necessary. Antibiotic regimens should include active drugs such as β-lactams or vancomycin (in case of MRSA) plus protein inhibitors such as clindamycin or linezolid, which block the production of toxins.
184,185 Supportive care that includes intravenous fluid and 
vasopressors might be necessary. The immunologic gap that allows the toxin to be active in susceptible patients suggests that passive immu -
notherapy such as intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) could be effective. However, the success of IVIG therapy has been disputed in several recent analyses.
186,187 Because the mortality of menstrual staphylococcal 
TSS is low, immunotherapy should be considered only for life-threatening cases of streptococcal TSS.
Prevention is aimed at avoiding the use of hyperabsorbent tampons 
and preventing staphylococcal colonization of wounds and mucosa. In the case of nasal carriage, this is achieved with topical application of antibacterial agents such as mupirocin. In the case of extranasal coloniza -
tion, additional complete body washing with antiseptics such as chlorhexidine is recommended for at least 1 week (see Table 194.8 later). Control cultures should be taken thereafter.
Active immunization with a TSST-1 vaccine could be a potential 
alternative. A phase I trial with recombinant TSST-1 demonstrated good tolerance and immunogenicity.
188 Further evaluation is awaited.
Enterotoxins and Food Poisoning
S. aureus  harbors up to 15 enterotoxins, which are defined as SAgs able 
to produce gastrointestinal symptoms that include vomiting and diarrhea in primate models.
2,5 Although many of these toxins have potential SAg 
activity, not all of them have a clear role in human disease. As mentioned, SEB and SEC are associated with nonmenstrual TSS. Likewise, SEA is by far the most frequent culprit of food poisoning, whereas SED, SEB, and SEC are less frequently involved.
189
Foodborne disease is a major public health problem that may account 
for 6 to 8 million cases per year in the United States. S. aureus food 
poisoning follows ingestion of toxins that have been released into agr (see Table 194.1). However, its expression requires specific conditions 
that include (1) an elevated protein level; (2) a relatively neutral pH (6.5–8); (3) an elevated p co
2; and (4) an elevated p o2.68 All four conditions 
are met when menstruation is combined with the use of high-absorbency tampons. The high protein concentration and neutral pH are provided by blood proteins and their buffering capacity. The high P co
2 is ensured 
by the higher than atmospheric CO 2 content of venous blood. Eventually, 
the high concentration in O 2 is introduced into the vaginal anaerobic 
flora by the high-absorbency tampon. Thus, the O 2 brought in by the 
tampon might be the trigger that modifies an otherwise equilibrated ecosystem and stimulates the production of TSST-1 by colonizing staphylococci.
TSST-1–producing S. aureus may be found in up to 20% of isolates 
from both carrier and clinical specimens, and higher in MSSA than in MRSA.
27,170 The fact that TSST-1 expression has special requirements 
may partially explain the comparatively low prevalence rate of the disease (approximately 1–3 cases per 100,000 patient-years).
2
Nonmenstrual Toxic Shock Syndrome
Nonmenstrual TSS has attracted less attention than menstrual TSS, yet it can occur in any patient. In addition to TSST-1, nonmenstrual TSS can be the result of enterotoxins SEB and SEC, which are agr regulated 
(see Table 194.1). Responsible organisms may colonize virtually any site of the body, including surgical wounds (surgical TSS), lung (influenza-associated TSS), mucosa or skin (recalcitrant desquamative syndrome in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]), con -
traceptive diaphragms, and dialysis catheters in patients undergoing chronic peritoneal dialysis. The development of general symptoms with high fever and cutaneous rash should suggest the possibility of non -
menstrual TSS in such patients.
A special feature of wound colonization is that the affected tissues 
often do not appear inflamed. This is believed to result from the toxin itself, which is able to prevent the influx of professional macrophages.
Predisposing Factors
In addition to the use of high-absorbency tampons or colonization with a toxigenic strain, most patients who are TSS susceptible also lack specific antibodies that block the responsible SAg. In one study, antibody titers considered protective against TSST-1 ( ≥
1 : 100) were detected in 30% 
of 2-year-old children and in more than 90% of women and men 25 years of age. However, low or negative titers of anti–TSST-1 antibodies (<5) were found in acute-phase sera from 90.5% of patients with menstrual TSS, and less than 50% had positive titers of anti–TSST-1 antibody that developed during convalescence.
2,178 Hence, some patients 
remain susceptible to recurrent TSS.
An interesting feature of SAgs is that they primarily trigger a CD 4+ 
T-cell response, which privileges a helper T-cell type 1 (Th1) cytokine release response without a significant type 2 (Th2) response. A conse-quence of the dominant Th1 response is a decreased antibody expression, which could explain the relative lack of antibody response in patients with TSS. An additional explanation for the anergy could be SAg-induced apoptosis of responsive T cells, which could account for the prolonged anergy toward the deleterious toxin.
Diagnosis
The diagnosis of TSS is based on a constellation of clinical and laboratory signs as proposed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
179 
Table 194.5 also proposes additional laboratory features, such as isolation of a toxin-producing organism to broaden the diagnostic tools.
180 The 
criteria of streptococcal TSS, from toxigenic S. pyogenes isolates, are presented for comparison. Although both syndromes are the results of similar kinds of SAgs, they differ in two important aspects. First, in contrast to staphylococcal TSS, streptococcal TSS is almost always associated with the presence of streptococci in deep-seated infections, such as erysipelas or necrotizing fasciitis, which has been referred to as flesh-eating disease. Second, mortality rates are very different in staphylococcal and streptococcal TSS. Mortality rates of menstrual and nonmenstrual (in children) staphylococcal TSS were reportedly <1%.
181,182 
In contrast, mortality of streptococcal TSS in children was 28%182 and 
up to 45% in adults,183 especially in cases of necrotizing fasciitis, which TABLE 194.5  Diagnostic Criteria for 
Staphylococcal and Streptococcal Toxic  
Shock Syndrome
STAPHYLOCOCCAL TOXIC 
SHOCK SYNDROMEaSTREPTOCOCCAL TOXIC SHOCK SYNDROME
Fever
HypotensionDiffuse macular rash with subsequent 
desquamation
Three of following organ systems 
involved:
 Liver
 Blood
 Renal
 Mucous membranes
 Gastrointestinal
 Muscular
 Central nervous system
Negative serologic studies for measles, 
leptospirosis, and Rocky Mountain spotted fever and negative blood or cerebrospinal fluid cultures for organisms other than Staphylococcus aureusIsolation of group A streptococci from:
 Sterile site for definite case
 Nonsterile site for probable case
HypotensionTwo of the following symptoms:
 Renal dysfunction
 Liver involvement
 Erythematous macular rash
 Coagulopathy
 Soft tissue necrosis
 Adult respiratory distress syndrome
aProposed revision of diagnostic criteria for staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome 
(TSS) includes (1) isolation of S. aureus from mucosal or normally sterile site; (2) 
production of TSS-associated superantigen by isolate; (3) lack of antibody to implicated toxin at time of acute illness; and (4) development of antibody to toxin during convalescence.Modified from McCormick JK, Yarwood JM, Schlievert PM. Toxic shock syndrome and bacterial superantigens: an update. Annu Rev Microbiol . 2001;55:77–104.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2409Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
branches, which explains why the four agr groups may be found in 
different downstream CCs (see Fig. 194.11). Eventually, MGEs were 
acquired later and are dispersed in almost any of the STs or CCs. Y et, a few exceptions to this rule exist. Indeed, the TSST-1 gene and the PVL gene locus are classically associated with agr group III, the exfoliatin 
genes with agr  group IV , and the vancomycin intermediate-resistance 
phenotypes with agr groups I or II.
7 Whether this is due to peculiarly 
favorable agr-related genetic backgrounds or to favorable contemporary 
conditions for the extension of specific clones is unclear. Moreover, a functional expression of agr is dispensable in certain circumstances, as 
for instance in biofilms.
87,88,165 Indeed, the association of clinical outcome 
with agr dysfunction and SCCmec  type was observed in a study from 
South Korea, in which MRSA bacteremia-associated mortality was highest with types II/III, in which agr dysfunction is significantly 
increased.
198
Using whole-genome sequencing, McAdam and colleagues199 traced 
back the evolution of notoriously virulent CC30 to over 100 years ago. In the late 1800s, CC30 first segregated into phage type 80/81 and Southwest Pacific clades, which encoded PVL and produced severe community- and hospital-acquired infections due to penicillin-resistant (but methicillin-susceptible) strains in the mid 1900s. In the mid 1950s, a third hospital-related clade emerged (EMRSA-16), which was devoid of PVL but had acquired a new methicillin-resistance MGE named staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec;  see later discussion). 
All three clades gave downstream variants related to further SNPs or MGE acquisitions. Moreover, the CC30 evolution demonstrates acquisition, loss, and reacquisition of PVL and other MGEs, underlying the virulence plasticity of this particular organism. It will be important to understand whether the success of CC30 is due to a peculiar ability to capture useful contaminated food stocks or beverages. The toxins are heat stable and thus are not denatured by cooking. The disease typically starts 2 to 6 hours after ingestion with general malaise, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. No fever occurs, but the symptoms may be distressing enough to justify hospital consultation in approximately 10% of patients. The symptoms spontaneously resolve within 6 to 12 hours, and the prognosis is excellent, except in the case of severe dehydration in young children and elderly patients.
Although the mode of action of SAgs at the level of T lymphocytes 
is known, their mechanism at the surface of the intestinal mucosa is less clear. They might share transcytosis mechanisms with TSST-1.
5,177
Other Implications of Superantigens
Although SAgs can result in dramatic subversion of the host immune system, they are not ultimate bacterial weapons because they affect only a restricted subgroup of patients who do not mount an appropriate blocking antibody response. Many of these staphylococcal genes are physically contiguous, which suggests that they may have arisen by duplication, maybe for the purpose of diversity.
8,190 The versatility of 
SAgs is further supported by the discovery that one of them (i.e., SHE) develops its SAg activity by binding to the V α rather than the V β 
domains of the T-cell receptor, thus expanding different sets of T-cell lineages than classic SAgs.
191
The clinical relevance of this multiplicity of toxins is not entirely 
understood. Toxin genes are dispensable elements that are not needed for growth in rich media and in the absence of competition. Some SAgs (e.g., TSST-1 and SEA, SEB, and SEC) obviously provide a way for the bacterium to escape host immunity. For instance, SAgs have been involved in the etiology of psoriasis and atopic dermatitis,
192 where SAg-induced 
skin modification could promote bacterial survival. On the other hand, the survival advantage of provoking allergic diseases including rhinitis and asthma
193,194 is less intuitive, except maybe to promote airborne 
dispersal (see Fig. 194.5). Altogether, the multiplicity of SAgs could enable S. aureus  to interfere with the immune response of various animal 
species, thus broadening its host spectrum.
Genomics and Mobile Genetic Elements
At the time of writing, several thousands of S. aureus  genome assemblies 
and annotation reports are available in public databases (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/genomes/154). S. aureus genomes are 
circular and contain approximately 2.8 million base pairs that represent up to 2700 coding sequences, plus structural and regulatory RNAs. They are divided into (1) a core genome, which contains mostly housekeeping genes, is quite conserved along various staphylococcal species, and accounts for about 80% of the whole DNA, and (2) an accessory genome, which carries mobile DNA (MGEs), contains most S. aureus  pathogenic and drug-resistance features, and may vary among 
different species and strains.
7,8,10,16 –18 In addition, certain elements of 
the core genome can vary according to lineages—for example, by the presence or absence of core genes that are specific of given clades. Therefore the core genome is sometimes subdivided into the core-stable and core-variable genome.
7,10
Comparative Genomics and Evolution
Genome evolution is driven by random point mutations that lead to single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), larger variations in core genes (e.g., deletions or duplication of repeat regions) that may differ between lineages, and MGEs that include insertion sequences, transposons, viruses, and pathogenicity and genomic islands.
7,8,10,16–18
Beyond academic interest, understanding the evolution of S. aureus  
may help understand the fundamentals of successful clones and eventually help design strategies to block their spread. Based on 7- and 14-gene MLST analyses,
195,196 an evolutionary scenario was proposed in which 
a common ancestor of Staphylococcus  spp. first segregated into non– S. 
aureus  and S. aureus  species (Fig. 194.11). The S. aureus  branch acquired 
the genomic islands νSaα and νSaβ (see later), which are absent from 
other staphylococci and encode for type I restriction modification systems, and further evolved into two subbranches that gave rise to different STs and CCs. Although still discussed,
196,197 it seems that the 
global regulator agr  groups I to IV differentiated early in these two Acquisition
of MGEs
SNP mutationsSNP mutationsAcquisition
of MGEs
Differentiationinto agr groups
Acquisition ofνSaα or νSaβislandsOther
Staphylococcus
spp.
Most recent
common 
ancestorS. aureus
subsp. group 2
agr l  agr ll   agr lll agr lV  agr l   agr ll  agr lllS. aureus
subsp. group 1
Primitive
S. aureus
FIG. 194.11  Molecular evolution of Staphylococcus  spp. into species 
and subspecies. Staphylococcus spp. evolved from a common ancestor 
into non– S. aureus  and S. aureus  species. The S. aureus  branch distinguishes 
itself by the early acquisition of the νSaα or νSaβ genomic islands, which 
carry the genes for type I restriction modification systems. agr-interference 
groups differentiated shortly after, primarily by mutations. However, the agr two-component regulatory system is likely to be very old, because it is also present in non– S. aureus species. Sequence types (STs) and clonal 
clusters (CCs) evolved later, mostly via mutations, and determined two S. 
aureus  subspecies (subsp. 1 and subsp. 2). Accordingly, the two subspecies 
contain different CCs, such as notoriously successful CC30 in subsp. 1 and CC5 in subsp. 2. On the other hand, they may contain similar agr interference 
groups, because these interference groups differentiated earlier, with the exception of group IV. (Modified from Robinson DA, Monk AB, Cooper JE, 
et al. Evolutionary genetics of the accessory gene regulator (agr) locus in 
Staphylococcus aureus . J Bacteriol . 2005;187:8312–8321; and Feng Y, Chen 
CJ, Su LH, et  al. Evolution and pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus: 
lessons learned from genotyping and comparative genomics. FEMS Microbiol 
Rev. 2008;32:23–37.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2410Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
νSaα and νSaβ carry not only restriction modification systems, but 
also a variety of SEs and other virulence genes and thus have been variously referred to as an enterotoxin gene cluster (egc) or virulence  
gene nursery.
6,173
Pathogenicity and genomic islands are terminology variations of 
mobile elements deriving from ancestral prophages, and their mobiliza -
tion is still dependent on so-called helper prophages.13 A seminal study 
showed that S. aureus SaPI1 could be mobilized from the bacterial chromosome by ϕ80α and ϕ11 and transferred into naïve recipients thereafter.
216 SaPIs often carry remnants of integrase/excisase (int/xis) 
genes, and λ phage cl -like repressor genes that repress the expression 
of int/xis and forbid spontaneous excision of their cognate SaPIs. When 
induced, helper prophages produce a nonessential protein that blocks the SaPI cl-like repressor, thus freeing the expression of int/xis genes 
and promoting SaPI excision. Excised SaPI can replicate and then undergo illegitimate packaging into nascent phage capsids of the helper prophage via pac sites. Following phage-induced bacterial lysis, capsids that are 
illegitimately hijacked by SaPIs can bind to new S. aureus recipients 
and inject their SaPI-DNA cargo, a process called generalized transduc -
tion. The delivered SaPI DNA then undergoes Campbell-like site-specific integration into the bacterial chromosome using its att site and its own 
integrase.
13,217 Such phage mobilization was observed with other 
pathogenicity islands (e.g., SaPI2) and is likely to be a general mechanism of gene transfer for these large elements. Excision and transfer of such elements are triggered by stresses such as exposure to ultraviolet light and certain antibiotics in vitro.
216–218 They are also likely to be promoted 
by antibiotics in the clinical setting as well.
Resistance Island Staphylococcal Cassette 
Chromosome mec
MRSA contains one resistance island called staphylococcal cassette 
chromosome  (SCC) mec,  wherein mec is the genetic element that confers 
resistance to methicillin.219 SCCmec  is an exogenous piece of DNA that 
may vary between 15 and 60  kb. It ins erts at the 5 ′ end of the orfX  gene 
at a conserved 15–base-pair chromosomal attachment site (attB) that 
recombines with an homologous site on the cassette (attS), generating 
two flanking direct repeats (attL and attR) after insertion. The SCC mec 
critical genes are the recombinases ccrA/ ccrB and ccrC, which can mediate 
mobilization of the whole element, and the mecA  gene, which mediates 
β-lactam resistance. The rest of SCC mec contains various additional 
determinants and is referred to as “J” for junkyard.220
mecA  encodes for penicillin-binding protein 2A (PBP2A), which has 
a low affinity for methicillin and most other β-lactam drugs and confers 
intrinsic resistance of MRSA to almost all β-lactams (see “ Mechanism 
of Methicillin Resistance ”).221 The mecA  gene is preceded or not by 
the mecRI and mecI  regulator determinants, which are homologues 
of the blaRI and blaI  regulators of penicillinase (bla) genes. mecRI 
(and blaRI) encodes for a membrane receptor, and mecI  (and blaI ) 
encodes for a gene repressor. In the presence of penicillin, the extra-cellular portion of the membrane mecRI (blaRI) receptor triggers an autocatalytic cleavage of its intracytoplasmic portion. The liberated intracytoplasmic peptide acts as a metalloprotease, which further cleaves the mecI (blaI) repressor, thus derepressing gene expression.
222 
The mecA  gene is bracketed by one or two copies of IS431, which 
is believed to serve as a gene collector and might promote the local insertion of additional determinants, such as antibiotic resistance  
genes.
220
Several types of SCC mec have evolved from more generalist SCC 
cassettes, which are structures able to integrate a variety of genes and are functional equivalents to integrons in gram-negative bacteria. Up to 12 SCC mec types have been described according to a consensus 
classification system.
223,224 The classification is based on the mecA  complex, 
which encompasses the mecA  gene and its surrounding regulatory genes, 
and the ccr  complex, which includes the ccrA/ccrB and ccrC genes.223 
The ccrA /ccrB and ccrC genes do not come together on the same SCC mec. 
ccrA/ccrB are cotranscribed and come in four different alleles, whereas ccrC has only one allele. Up to now there are nine types of SCCmec  
that carry various combinations of 
ccrA and ccrB and three types that 
carry one of two different ccrC  alleles, including one in type V and VIII 
and a newer one in type XII.224MGEs or rather to contemporary environmental conditions that favored clonal expansion (e.g., in the hospital), or perhaps both.
Staphylococcus aureus Cross-Species Jump 
Between Humans and Animals
S. aureus is also an animal pathogen that raises particular concerns in 
livestock and cattle. Human and animal S. aureus  strains tend to segregate 
in different lineages.200 However, cross-species jumps exist and need to 
be considered. Companion animals and veterinary providers have been shown to share strains.
201 Two outbreaks have been described in Israel 
involving horses and veterinary personnel.202,203
Another example is the swine-related MRSA CC398, which appeared 
to colonize swine husbandries since the early 2000s.204 Price and col-
leagues205 proposed that CC398 was first transferred from human to 
swine. Indeed, CC398 is also present in humans and had been devoid of the SCCmec  cassette (and thus was methicillin susceptible).
206 The 
swine CC398 has lost the ϕSa3 β-hemolysin–disrupting prophage, which 
is present in the human CC398. As mentioned, in human strains prophage ϕSa3 disrupts the β-hemolysin gene and simultaneously imports virulence 
factors, including the IEC carrying Sak, CHIPS, and SCIN (discussed under “ Immune Evasion ” earlier).
207 In swine CC398, the loss of prophage 
ϕSa3 restores the β-hemolysin gene, which may be important for skin 
or mucosal colonization in animals.114,208 The swine CC398 also acquired 
a new SCCmec  cassette that may carry useful determinants for survival 
in swine husbandries, including antibiotic use. Thus, CC398 was first a human MSSA. It was transferred to swine with the parallel loss of ϕSa3 and acquisition of a new SCCmec.  The loss of prophage ϕSa3 
seems critical in this evolution. This raises the question as to whether reacquisition of prophage ϕSa3 by swine CC398 could promote its reestablishment in humans, carrying along a new SCC mec cassette. 
Indeed, cases of invasive human infection with swine-CC398 MRSA are increasingly reported.
209 Likewise, a linear increase of 66% of human 
CC398 MRSA cases occurred in Denmark from 2004 to 2011; one-third of these patients reported no livestock exposure.
210 Most important, an 
epidemiologic evaluation in the Republic of Ireland has revealed an elaborate pattern of cases mixing human and animal disease, wherein a few human CC398 MRSAs did not carry the ϕSa3 prophage IEC 
cluster, thus resembling typical animal strains, whereas some animal CC398 MRSAs did carry the ϕSa3 prophage IEC cluster, thus resembling 
human strains.
211 In this line, a large study in Iowa found higher rates 
of S. aureus carriage in swine workers, with more than a third carrying 
livestock-associated strains that did cause infection in humans.212 This 
strongly supports the likelihood constant of interspecies passage.
Similar scenarios were described with the ST5 S. aureus strain that 
invades poultry213 and with the notoriously virulent human CC8 S. aureus  
strain that infects cows.114,214 As in swine CC398, the bovine version of 
CC8 first lost the ϕSa3 prophage and then acquired a new composite SCC element, which is as yet devoid of the methicillin resistance mecA  
gene but carries a new LPXTG surface protein that might be responsible for colonization of the bovine mammary gland. Thus, gene trafficking and genome evolution should be apprehended globally.
Pathogenicity and Genomic Islands
S. aureus  pathogenicity (SaPI) and genomic islands ( νSa) are continuous 
structures that vary in size from approximately 15  kb to 70  kb and ca n 
harbor many virulence or resistance genes. They mostly contain heter -
ologous DNA that indicates exogenous acquisition. A common feature of these elements is that they are bracketed by direct or inverted repeats and carry recombinase genes. The repeats serve as an attachment site (att) for integration into homologous regions of the bacterial chromosome. The recombinase, which is often an integrase, catalyzes integration into the chromosome.
215 At least seven SaPIs have been described and are reunified 
in four groups based on the homology of their integrase genes.10 SaPI1 
and SaPI2 harbor the gene for TSST-1 and are responsible for most cases of TSS. SaPI3 and SaPI4 contain numerous enterotoxin genes. SaPIbov encodes for a bovine version of TSST, and SaPIbap encodes a bovine adherence protein that might play a role in bovine mastitis.
The S. aureus chromosome also carries two larger elements 
called genomic islands (νSaα and νSaβ), which were acquired early during staphylococcal speciation (see Fig. 194.11).
8,17,58,190 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2411Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)then transfers the penultimate d-ala to a free NH 2 terminal (the ε—NH 2 
of lysine) of neighboring peptidoglycan stem peptides. The terminal 
d-ala is released, and a new stem peptide cross-link is created (see Fig. 
194.12A).
Penicillin and other β-lactams are steric analogues of the cell wall 
d-ala-d-ala terminal of the precursors. They are mechanism-based inhibitors that compete with d-ala-d-ala binding to the active site of 
the membrane-bound transpeptidase, which they block irreversibly—hence the term penicillin-binding protein  (PBP) coined for these enzymes.
Resistance to Penicillin
The most common resistance mechanism of S. aureus to β-lactams is 
penicillinase, which is encoded by the bla gene usually carried on a 
plasmid. The gene is inducible and preceded by the blaRI and blaI 
regulatory determinants (see “ Resistance Island Staphylococcal Cassette  
Chromosome mec”). Penicillinase is a secreted enzyme that hydrolyzes 
penicillin and other penicillinase-susceptible compounds into inactive penicilloic acid. Penicillinase-producing S. aureus  emerged rapidly after 
penicillin was introduced as a therapeutic agent in the mid 1940s. It is now prevalent both in the hospital and in the community, where it represents close to 80% of the isolates.
240,241
The minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of penicillin G for 
fully susceptible S. aureus  is approximately 0.01  mg/L. In co ntrast, the 
MIC of penicillinase-stable drugs such as nafcillin, oxacillin, flucloxacillin, or cephalosporins is 10-fold greater. Thus, penicillin G remains the best choice against penicillin-susceptible staphylococci. However, major concerns remain in the United States about recommended detection of penicillin susceptibility and resistance, because currently recommended susceptibility assays may miss more than 35% of β-lactamase–producing 
S. aureus.
242,243 Moreover, the use of a single β-lactam, such as oxacillin 
or cefoxitin, to predict susceptibility of S. aureus to other β-lactams 
may have limitations. For example, an analysis of S. aureus MICs found 
that oxacillin was a better predictor than cefoxitin for susceptibility to ceftriaxone, ceftaroline, and cefazolin.
244
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus
The first penicillinase-stable β-lactams such as cephalosporins and semisynthetic methicillin and nafcillin became available in the late 1950s. Ironically, MRSA was first described at about the same time.
245 The 
prevalence of MRSA progressively increased thereafter. One survey of the National Nosocomial Infections Surveillance System (NNIS) found that the hospital prevalence of MRSA increased from 2.1% in 1975 to 35% in 1991.
246 It went up to 60% in certain centers in the United 
States,52 and more than 70% in a report from Shanghai,247 but great 
geographic variations exist worldwide. Several reports have indicated a declining trend in the prevalence of MRSA over the last decade, both in Europe and in North America.
53,248–250 Although this decline most 
probably results from hospital hygiene measures, the exact reason may be more intricate, such as a better fitness of MSSA replacing MRSA in the absence of antibiotic pressure.
251 This was elegantly demonstrated 
in competition experiments showing that antibiotic concentrations that were several orders of magnitude below the MIC of susceptible strains favored the growth of MRSA over MSSA, whereas MSSA overgrew MRSA in the total absence of antibiotics.
252 Such low antibiotic concentra -
tions are found in sewages of urban environments253 and are likely to 
be decreasing with antibiotic consumption control, thus favoring MSSA over MRSA resurgence.
Health Care–Associated Versus 
Community-Acquired Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus
Although originally confined to the hospital environment, MRSA 
has emerged as a community-associated infection over the past 2 decades.
25,153,254 CA-MRSA is different from HCA-MRSA from both 
epidemiologic and molecular points of view. Case-definition studies showed that HCA-MRSA and CA-MRSA represented different organ -
isms that produced different clinical syndromes.
255,256 HCA-MRSA 
was associated with risk factors that included recent hospitalization or surgery, residence in a nursing home, or presence of an indwelling catheter or device. It produced mostly hospital-related pneumonia and SCCmec  types mirror major original MRSA clones. Types I, II, and 
III were shown to belong to HCA-MRSA. They harbor multiple resistance 
determinants, they have relatively large sizes (35–60  kb), and th ey are 
therefore difficult to mobilize. Types IV , V , and VI were associated with CA-MRSA.
225,226 They are much smaller (about 15  kb) t han their hospital 
congeners and do not carry multiple antibiotic-resistance genes. However, they appear to be associated with other elements in the same bacterium, including prophage-related PVL and multiple SE genes.
8 One particularly 
successful clone of CA-MRSA (clone USA300 of CC8 lineage) has also acquired a so-called arginine catabolic mobile element (ACME) inserted downstream of the SCC mec cassette.
227 ACME was acquired from S. 
epidermidis  and confers survival advantages in acidic and maybe other 
environments. It improved survival and fitness of USA300 in a rabbit model of bacteremia.
228 Together these elements may render the organism 
particularly fit and virulent.
Whereas HCA-MRSA types are clonal and carry large and difficult-
to-mobilize SCCmec  cassettes, CA-MRSA types carry small SCCmec  
cassettes, which are more prone to mobilization220 and less clonal than 
HCA-MRSA, at least in Europe, where the USA300 clone is rather sporadic.
229,230 CA-MRSA did not arise from HCA-MRSA that permeated 
the community, but emerged independently by acquiring SCC mec most 
likely from CoNS donors.
Recently, a new SCC mec carrying a mecA  variant gene ( mecA LGA251 ) 
with only 70% homology to mecA  was missed by molecular probing 
and incidentally identified through methicillin-resistance phenotyping.48 
This variant, renamed mecC,47 was mainly found in livestock-associated 
MRSA (e.g., CC130, CC1943, and ST425). Although few mecC -positive 
MRSA strains could be traced back to the mid-1970s,231 they have 
clearly been increasing since 2003, representing almost 3% of all MRSA isolates recovered in Denmark in 2011.
231 This adds to the need to 
closely follow staphylococcal cross-species jumps between humans  
and animals.
Beyond epidemiologic implications, the use of molecular diagnostics 
insensitive to non- mecA  methicillin resistance should be considered, 
and a newer generation of the Cepheid Xpert (new Xpert MRSA Gen 3; Cepheid, Sunnyvale, CA) PCR assay includes mecC  as a target.
212 The 
therapeutic implications of mecC  have not been reported, but this variant 
PBP has a higher affinity for penicillins than for cephalosporins, and in vitro, mecC  isolates are susceptible to the addition of clavulanate to 
penicillin.
232 This is reminiscent of the greater affinity of old penicillin 
G and amoxicillin for PBP2A, and the fact that amoxicillin-clavulanate combinations successfully cured experimental infections due to MRSA, with clavulanate being required to block secreted penicillinase.
233 
Moreover, expression of methicillin-resistance by mecC -positive MRSA 
appears to be temperature dependent. MICs of flucloxacillin (an analogue of methicillin) were much lower when tested at 37°C than at 30°C. As a result, flucloxacillin successfully cured experimental endocarditis due to mecC -positive MRSA, whereas it is known to fail against mecA -positive 
MRSA.
234
ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE
S. aureus has developed resistance to virtually all antibiotic classes available for clinical use. These encompass cell wall inhibitors such as β-lactams and glycopeptides; ribosomal inhibitors that include macrolide-
lincosamide-streptogramin B (MLS
B), pleuromutilins, aminoglycosides, 
tetracyclines, fusidic acid, and the new oxazolidinones; the RNA polymerase inhibitor rifampin; the DNA gyrase–blocking quinolones; the antimetabolite TMP-SMX and iclaprim; and the newer lipopeptides and lipoglycopeptides.
235–238 FDA-approved versions of such drugs and 
the main resistance mechanisms of S. aureus are summarized in Table 
194.6. Some are discussed subsequently.
β-Lactams
β-Lactams inhibit bacterial growth by interfering with cell wall assembly. 
They bind to the active site of a series of membrane-bound enzymes responsible for inserting the peptidoglycan precursors into the nascent wall (Fig. 194.12).
239 Certain enzymes are bifunctional and carry both 
transglycosidase and transpeptidase activity. Transpeptidation takes place at the d-ala-d-ala terminal of the precursor. It hydrolyzes the covalent bond between the penultimate and the terminal d-ala and 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
2411.e1
Update: Combination Therapy for MRSA Bacteremia
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2412Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
least in Europe and Australia.229,260 Indeed, CA-MRSA has been highly 
clonal in North America, with a first clone (USA400 and ST1) prevailing 
until approximately 2000. Since then, it has been replaced with the very successful and highly prevalent clone USA300 (ST8) ,
153 accounting for 
61% of all MRSA isolates in the United States in one recent surveillance survey.
261 Most interesting, Strauss and colleagues262 traced USA300 back bacteremia. In contrast, CA-MRSA was not associated with any risk factors and produced primarily SSTIs (often furunculosis), and sometimes rapidly fatal necrotizing pneumonia. It was also described as being responsible for necrotizing fasciitis and bone and joint infections.
257,258 
In addition, whereas HCA-MRSA was multiresistant and highly clonal, CA-MRSA was pauciresistant
259,260 and seemingly more polyclonal, at TABLE 194.6  Staphylococcus aureus Resistance Mechanisms to Major Classes of Antibiotics
ANTIMICROBIAL 
AGENTSRESISTANCE MECHANISMS
RESISTANCE GENETARGET MODIFICATIONDRUG INACTIVATIONDECREASED ACCUMULATION NATURE ORIGIN LOCATION
a
β-Lactams
 Penicillinase-S Yes Yes No Penicillinase Acquired Plasmid
PBP2Ab
(PBP2C in some livestock 
animals)Acquired SCCmec (chromosome)
 Penicillinase-R Yes No No PBP2Ab
(PBP2C in some livestock 
animals)Acquired SCCmec (chromosome)
Glycopeptides
 Intermediate 
resistanceYes No No Mutations in wall-building 
genesIntrinsic Chromosome
 Full resistance Yes No No vanA and vanH Acquired SCCmec (chromosome)
Lipoglycopeptides
 Daptomycin Yes No No Mutations in genes involved 
in wall-building and 
membrane charges (mprF)Intrinsic Chromosome
Macrolide-lincosamide-
streptogramin B
 Macrolides Yes No Yes erm Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
msrA Acquired Plasmid
 LincosamidecYes Yes No erm Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
linA Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
 Streptogramin BcYes Yes Yes erm Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
vgb (rare) Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
msrA (rare) Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
 Streptogramin A No Yes Yes vat, vatA (rare) Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
Quinupristin-dalfopristin Yes Yes Yes vga, vgaB (rare); combinations 
of above (rare)Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
Linezolid Yes No No Mutation in 23S rRNA gene Intrinsic Chromosome
cfr Acquired Plasmid
Tetracyclines Yes No Yes tet(M), tet(O) Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
tet(K), tet(L) Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
Gentamicin No Yes Yes aac(6′)-aph(2′) Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
Respiratory chain mutants Chromosome
Chloramphenicol No Yes No cat Acquired Plasmid or chromosome
Fusidic acid Yes No Yes fusA mutation Intrinsic Chromosome
pUB101 Acquired Plasmid
Rifampin Yes No No rpoB mutation Intrinsic Chromosome
Fluoroquinolones Yes No Yes grlA and gyrA Intrinsic Chromosome
norA Intrinsic Chromosome
Trimethoprim Yes No No dfrA mutation Intrinsic Chromosome
dfrA Acquired Plasmid or chromosome 
(acts by mutation or overproduction)
Sulfamethoxazole Yes No No dpsA Intrinsic Chromosome
Acquired Plasmid (probable) (acts 
by mutation or overproduction)
aSCCmec, Staphylococcal chromosomal cassette mec (see text for details).
bPBP2A, Penicillin-binding protein 2A; PBP2C, penicillin-binding protein 2C.
cerm gene must be induced or constitutively expressed to confer resistance to lincosamides and streptogramins B. Only macrolides are good inducers. Lincosamides and 
streptogramins do not induce resistance but are inactive against constitutively MLS B-resistant strains.
aac(6′)-aph(2′), Bifunctional aminoglycoside acetyl-transferase and phosphor-transferase determinant, present on transposons Tn 4001; cat, chloramphenicol acetyl-
transferase; cfr (chloramphenicol-florfenicol resistance), 23S rRNA methyltransferase; dfrA, dihydrofolate reductase gene; dpsA, dihydropteroate synthase; erm, 
erythromycin-resistance methylase, mainly ermA (chromosome, transposons Tn554) and ermC (plasmid); fusA, gene encoding elongation factor G (EF-G); grlA and gyrA, 
genes encoding for the DNA topoisomerase and gyrase, respectively; linA, lincosamide nucleotidyl transferase; mprF (muropeptide resistance factor), 
lysylphosphatidylglycerol synthase; msrA, macrolide-streptogramin resistance, ABC-transporter; norA, gene encoding for staphylococcal efflux pump; pUB101, plasmid 
encoding penicillin-resistance (penicillinase), cadmium-resistance, and a protein (Far1) conferring impermeability to fusidic acid; rpoB, gene encoding for β subunit of RNA 
polymerase; tet(M) and tet(O),  responsible for ribosomal-modification and protection; tet(K) and tet(L),  responsible for active efflux of tetracyclines; vanA and vanH, 
vancomycin resistance A and H genes (see text for details); vat and vatA, acetyl transferase genes; vga and vgaB, streptogramin A efflux gene, ABC-transporter; vgb, 
virginiamycin hydrolysis.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2413Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
versus mouse experimental models.228,264,265 This issue was solved by 
two more recent studies. The first one demonstrated that PVL toxicity 
was host specific.266 PVL appeared to bind to and lyse neutrophils via 
the C5a receptor and was effective against human and rabbit versions of C5a, but not against mouse and dog C5a, thus explaining the rabbit and mouse differences. The second demonstrated that PVL was toxic in humanized SCID mice, but not in wild-type mice.
267 These are 
important findings because they provide a rationale for treating PVL-producing staphylococcal infection with toxin-blocking antimicrobial combinations containing, for instance, clindamycin or linezolid,
268 or 
maybe passive immunotherapy.269
Thus, HCA-MRSA and CA-MRSA are not alike. Practically, MRSA 
in patients at risk is likely to be of the multiresistant hospital type, to Europe—not to Australia, as formerly thought—where it became prevalent as PVL-negative MSSA in the mid-1800s. It then spread through Europe and invaded the United States in the early 1900s, where it acquired PVL-containing prophage ϕSA2 in the late 1930s, followed 
by the ACME locus and then several introductions of SCC mec after the 
1960s. Since then, it has spread transcontinentally and intercontinentally to South America and Africa but as yet has not become prevalent  
in Europe.
As mentioned, CA-MRSA is associated with SCC mec type IV (and 
type V and VI in a few cases) and almost always carries PVL.
153,259,263 
PVL is epidemiologically associated with SSTI and necrotizing pneu -
monia, but its specific role in disease has been controversial because, among other considerations, experimental results were opposite in rabbit 
CH3CH3
COOH
ON
HNHSCR
O
CHCH3CH3
COOH
ONHNHSCR
O
CH
2A 34CH3CH3
COOH
ONHNHSCR
O
CH
1CH3CH3
COOH
ONHNHSCR
O
C
H
2Plasma
membrane2D-ala-D-alaGM
Peptidoglycan
PBPInhibition by
penicillinCH3CH3
COOH
ONHNHS
AGlycine x 5
Glycine x 5
3Transglycosidase
D-ala-
TranspeptidaseCR
O
CH
GMCH
3CH3
COOH
ONHNHS
BCR
O
CH4 1
PBP2A
FIG. 194.12  Peptidoglycan assembly in wild-type Staphylococcus aureus  and in methicillin-resistant S. aureus  (MRSA).  (A) Cell wall precursors 
consist of units of disaccharides-peptides where disaccharides ( N-acetylglucosamine–N-acetylmuramic acid) are linked to pentapeptides ( L-ala– D-glu– L-
lys–D-ala– D-ala) at the N-acetylmuramate residue. After membrane translocation, precursors are handled by membrane penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs). 
High-molecular-weight PBPs are bifunctional enzymes that perform both a transglycosidase step, linking incoming N-acetylglucosamine (G) to muramic 
acid (M) in nascent wall, and a transpeptidase step, linking penultimate D-ala to glycine acceptor in nascent wall. In S. aureus, lysine in position 3 of 
stem peptide is almost always decorated with pentaglycine side chain (orange bars). Penicillin is a mechanism-based inhibitor of the transpeptidase 
domain of PBPs. (B) MRSA carries an additional PBP called PBP2A, which has very low affinity for most available β-lactam drugs. Therefore, when β-lactams 
are present, they block normal PBPs but not PBP2A. PBP2A has only a transpeptidase domain and must “hijack” the transglycosidase domain of normal 
PBP2 to be active. (From de Lencastre H, Wu SW, Pinho MG, et  al. Antibiotic resistance as a stress response: complete sequencing of a larger number 
of chromosomal loci in Staphylococcus aureus strain COL that impact on the expression of resistance to methicillin. Microb Drug Resist . 
1999;5:163–175.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2414Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
Two types of resistance to glycopeptides were reported in clinical 
isolates of S. aureus, namely “intermediate” and “high-level” resistance. 
According to the 2012 guidelines of the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI, formerly the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards [NCCLS])
281 the vancomycin MIC breakpoints for S. aureus 
are as follows: ≤ 2 mg/L for susceptible isolates; 4 to 8  mg/L for 
intermediate-resistant isolates; and ≥ 16 mg/L for high-level–resistant 
isolates. Both resistance phenotypes result from different mechanisms and may be of different clinical and epidemiologic relevance.
Therapeutic Monitoring of Vancomycin in 
Adult Patients
Although CLSI and the European Committee on Antimicrobial Suscep -
tibility Testing (EUCAST; http://www.eucast.org/clinical_breakpoints/) 
agree on the ≤2 mg/L susceptibility breakpoint, several reports and 
meta-analyses have indicated that infections due to S. aureus  with van-
comycin MICs > 1 mg/L but ≤2 mg/L (referred to as high MICs) result 
in a greater mortality than infections due to S. aureus  with vancomycin 
MICs ≤1 mg/L (referred to as low MICs).282,283 Therefore, special attention 
was given to pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters that could help predict treatment efficacy.
284 A consensus review proposed 
the following guidelines for vancomycin treatment and monitoring in severe infection, based on twice-daily administration of the drug:
From the therapeutic point of view:
1. The trough concentration of vancomycin in the serum is the best 
indicator of efficacy and prevention of resistance selection.
2. Trough levels of vancomycin should be between 15 and 20  mg/L.
3. Obtaining peak levels is not indicated.
4. Drug dosages should be adapted to the patient’s body weight and 
renal function. A loading dose of 25 to 30  mg/kg IV must be 
considered, followed by 15 to 20 mg/kg IV q12h depending on the renal function and drug dosage monitoring.
From the toxicity point of view:
1. Unlike original preparations of vancomycin (in the late 1950s), 
ototoxicity is no longer an issue if vancomycin is given in monotherapy.
2. Nephrotoxicity at high doses in monotherapy has been reported.
3. Vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity should be considered if two 
to three consecutive measurements of renal function are abnormal during therapy.
4. Peak concentration of vancomycin does not seem to be a good 
correlate of toxicity.
Applying appropriate vancomycin dosage might explain the results 
of a more recent study reporting no difference in the mortality rate of patients infected with low or high vancomycin MIC S. aureus.
285
Intermediate Resistance to Glycopeptides
Intermediate-resistant S. aureus isolates were originally described in 
Japan and in the United States286,287 but are ubiquitous. The first isolate,286 
called Mu50, was recovered from a 4-month-old child with MRSA sternal wound infection after cardiac surgery. The infection did not respond to vancomycin treatment. The organism had an MIC of van -
comycin of 8  mg/L, as detec ted with standard broth dilution methods. 
At that time, the CLSI defined staphylococci for which the MIC of 
vancomycin was 4  mg/L or less as s usceptible, for which the MIC was 
8 to 16  mg/L as intermediate, and for which the MIC was 32  mg/L or 
more as resistant.29 Therefore, the Mu50 isolate was defined as a van -
comycin (or glycopeptide)-intermediate S. aureus (GISA).
The same author reported that a second S. aureus isolate, called 
Mu3, was responsible for vancomycin treatment failure in an adult patient with pneumonia.
288 Although the vancomycin MIC for this 
isolate was 4  mg/L, form ally considered as susceptible at the time, Mu3 
contained GISA subpopulations ( ≤10−6 colony-forming units) that grew 
in the presence of 5 to 9  mg/L of vanco mycin and were not detected 
with standard drug-susceptibility testing. The term heteroresistant 
GISA (hGISA) was coined to define the Mu3 phenotype. Since then, a number of cases of GISA and hGISA have been described worldwide and were associated with vancomycin treatment failures both in animal experiments and in human cases.
289 As mentioned earlier, CLSI and 
EUCAST breakpoints now classify isolates with a vancomycin MIC of whereas MRSA in patients without risk factors is likely to more susceptible to antibiotics but more invasive.
Mechanism of Methicillin Resistance
The main mechanism of methicillin resistance is not mediated by penicillinase but by the newly acquired PBP2A, encoded by mecA.
221 
The few staphylococci that express borderline methicillin resistance from the overexpression of penicillinase are usually not considered as clini -
cally relevant, although awareness of their possible implication in poor therapeutic outcome is resurging.
270 Because of its low β-lactam affinity, 
PBP2A can take over the cell wall assembly when normal staphylococcal PBPs are blocked by β-lactams (see Fig. 194.12B).
271 However, although 
this confers high intrinsic resistance to virtually all β-lactams, PBP2A 
has a special requirement for particular cell wall precursors. These must contain a pentaglycine decorating side chain attached to the position 3 l-lysine of their stem peptide and other specificities, such as an amidated 
d-glutamine in position 2 of the peptide (Fig. 194.13).
Providing this adequate substrate to PBP2A requires the functionality 
of several additional genes implicated in the normal wall building machinery, including 14 or more accessory determinants.
272 Some of 
them (femABC and fmhB ) are responsible for adding the glycine side-
chain residues critical for the PBP2A function.273 Any alteration in these 
elements decreases the expression of methicillin resistance in spite of the fact that PBP2A is present.
Another fragility of PBP2A is that it carries only a transpeptidase 
domain and misses a transglycosidase activity (see Fig. 194.12B ). Thus, 
for successful assembly of the peptidoglycan, PBP2A needs the assistance of the transglycosidase domain of normal staphylococcal PBP , namely PBP2.
274 This is a salient example of protein cooperation in antibiotic 
resistance but also represents the Achilles’ heel of the system. Because most β-lactams can readily block the normal staphylococcal PBPs, 
further drug development needs only to target additional PBP2A to be effective. Both experimental work and recent crystallographic evidence indicate that such an approach is feasible.
275 Successful treatment of 
experimental endocarditis from MRSA was achieved with an array of older and newer β-lactams with good PBP2A affinity.
233,276 This approach 
is driving the development of new anti-MRSA compounds,277 which 
recently generated some novel molecules of the cephalosporin (e.g., ceftobiprole and ceftaroline) and carbapenem classes.
278,279
Glycopeptides
As a general rule, current glycopeptides  (e.g., vancomycin) are less bacteri -
cidal than β-lactams against MSSA. Therefore they should not be used as 
first-line treatment against β-lactam–susceptible organisms.280 However, 
vancomycin is still a gold standard against severe MRSA infections, recently enriched by daptomycin, novel anti-MRSA β-lactams (which 
are discussed later), and combinations of vancomycin or daptomycin plus β-lactams to take advantage of the so-called “seesaw effect” (also 
discussed in “ Daptomycin ” and “ Alternatives Treatments ” later).
femA femBfemC
fmhBL-AlaGM
D-Glu-NH2
D-Ala ( )
D-AlaL-Lys- Gly-Gly-Gly-Gly-Gly
FIG. 194.13  Peptidoglycan precursor required for wall assembly by 
PBP2A.  To be functional, penicillin-binding protein 2A (PBP2A) requires that 
the cell provide fully decorated precursors, containing both pentaglycine 
side chain and amidated glutamine. Inactivation of femB, femA,  and fhmB  
genes blocks addition of pentaglycines and thus decreases expression of methicillin resistance even though PBP2A is present in bacterial membrane. Inactivation of femC has a similar effect. (Modified from Berger-Bächi B. 
Expression of resistance to methicillin. Trends Microbiol . 1994;2:389–393.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2415Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)Daptomycin
Daptomycin is a relatively new lipopeptide that was approved in the 
United States and elsewhere for S. aureus –complicated SSTI, bacteremia, 
and right-sided infective endocarditis.236 It is increasingly used as a 
replacement for vancomycin against MRSA. Daptomycin is an amphi -
philic molecule that requires calcium to solubilize as octamer-micelles in liquid phases.
307 Because of its large size, it cannot traverse the outer 
membrane of gram-negative bacteria, which are naturally resistant to the drug. In gram-positive organisms, it diffuses through the peptido -
glycan toward the plasma membrane, where the calcium ions disperse and leave the lipid moiety of daptomycin to interact with the plasma membrane and destabilize its electric potential.
308 Daptomycin is highly 
bactericidal, but its activity is dose dependent and the dosage of the drug must be large enough to ensure supra-MIC tissue levels. Standard 
recommendations are 4 to 6  mg/kg IV q24h, but 8 or e ven 10  mg/kg 
q24h have been used in severe infections without notable side effects.309–311 
Prospective observational studies and large retrospective series indicate that daptomycin may also be considered for use against left-sided infective endocarditis due to MRSA,
310,312 but approval by official agencies is still 
pending. Daptomycin should not be used against airway-acquired pneumonia because it is inactivated by alveolar surfactant.
313
Mutants with decreased daptomycin susceptibility (MIC >4 mg/L) 
were recovered both in the laboratory and in clinical samples.236,314 As 
mentioned in the “ Intermediate Resistance to Glycopeptides ” section 
earlier, daptomycin resistance is mediated by mutations in or deregulation of mprF  (via vraSR  or graSR ), which increases the charge of staphylococcal 
plasma membrane, and is often associated with intermediate vancomycin resistance.
315,316 This cross-resistance raises caution in antibiotic use.
Interesting to note, however, is the fact that daptomycin-resistant 
mutants have a decreased fitness that may hamper their virulence and dissemination.
317 Moreover, like intermediate vancomycin resistance, 
daptomycin resistance is associated with the seesaw effect, characterized by a resensitization to β-lactams related to a general perturbation of the cell-call building machinery and an alteration of PBP expression.
318,319 
Taking advantage of the seesaw effect opens ways to alternative antibiotic combination strategies.
Protein Synthesis Inhibitors
The MLS B antibiotics and the oxazolidinone linezolid are discussed in 
this section. The tetracycline derivatives glycylcycline tigecycline and omadacycline are addressed in the subsequent section “ Alternative Treatments. ”
MLS B Antibiotics
MLS B antibiotics comprise separate classes of molecules (i.e., macrolides, 
ketolides, lincosamides, and streptogramin B) that all bind to the bacterial 50S ribosomal subunit and block protein synthesis. Resistance proceeds by any of the three classic mechanisms: modification of the bacterial drug target, modification-inactivation of the drug itself, and decreasing intracellular accumulation of the drug.
Ribosome modification and drug efflux are the most frequent 
resistance mechanisms in S. aureus .
320 Ribosome modification is mediated 
by the erm gene (for erythromycin methylase), which encodes a methylase that adds one or two methyl groups to the 23S rRNA of the 50S ribosomal subunit. This inflicts a steric alteration that greatly decreases the affinity of the drug for its target. The erm determinants belong to a family of methylase genes preferentially located on mobile elements such as transposons (e.g., Tn 554 and ermA) or plasmids (e.g., pE194 and ermC). 
An additional sophistication in S. aureus is that the expression of erm 
may be inducible or constitutive.
320 In the case of the inducible form, 
the erm product is synthesized only in the presence of inducing drugs. 
Thus, the bacterium does not spend worthless metabolic energy in the absence of antibiotic pressure. Among MLS
B drugs, only macrolides 
are good erm inducers. However, once induced, the gene product confers 
cross-resistance to the other members of the group, including the newer ketolides, lincosamides, and streptogramin B, but not streptogramin A. Moreover, mutations that result in constitutive erm expression, and 
hence, global MLS
B resistance, occur at high frequency (10−7 to 10−8). 
Therefore, lincosamides (e.g., clindamycin) should be used with great caution against erm-inducible isolates (i.e., resistant to erythromycin 4 and 8  mg/L as GISA. Currently the term “heteroresistant” is applied 
to isolates with a vancomcyin MIC of 2  µg/mL or less but which harbor 
resistant colonies (see Chapter 30).
Intermediate glycopeptide resistance arises from pleiotropic chromo -
somal mutations that affect the structure of the wall peptidoglycan. In susceptible strains, glycopeptides inhibit cell wall assembly by binding to the d-ala-d-ala terminal of cell wall precursors and block both transpeptidation and transglycosylation. GISA harbors a thickened cell wall that contains an increased number of free non–cross-linked d-ala-d-ala terminals. This increased amount of free d-ala-d-ala is 
believed to act as a lure that traps glycopeptide molecules before they reach their target.
290
Genomic analyses indicate that mutations in two-component sensing 
systems are involved, including vraSR  (for vancomycin resistance–
associated sensor/regulator),291 graSR  (for glycopeptide resistance–
associated regulator),292,293 and walKR .294 vraSR  is a cell wall stress response 
regulator that affects the expression of up to 100 genes, including cell-wall building enzymes such as PBP2 and MurZ.
291 vraSR  dysfunction affects 
peptidoglycan sturdiness, which is compensated for by wall thickening. graSR  affects the expression of up to 200 genes including the dlt operon 
and muropeptide resistance factor mprF.  As mentioned in the “ Immune  
Evasion ” section, the dlt operon and mprF  are involved in cell surface 
charge modulation by means of alanylation of teichoic acids and lysine decoration of membrane phospholipids, respectively.
142 This explains 
the phenomenon of GISA cross-resistance with AMPs and daptomycin, the antibacterial activities of which depend on membrane charges (see also discussion later).
295 walKR is a wall metabolism-associated regulon 
that is highly conserved in low GC gram-positive bacteria and senses bacterial wall changes—for instance, in response to antibiotic exposure—in order to adapt cell wall metabolism.
296 walKR mutations affect both 
vancomycin and daptomycin resistance by means of mprF  deregulation, 
among other processes.294,296
Experimental work indicates that like SCVs, GISA strains preexist 
and are selected during therapy.297 However, their low level of resistance 
and sometimes-heterogeneous phenotype make them hard to detect in the laboratory.
29 Pending the development of efficient automated systems, 
a convenient low-technology dual-antibiotic Etest strip assay containing vancomycin and teicoplanin performed remarkably well. It detected GISA and hGISA with a high sensitivity (95%) and specificity (94%), which was almost identical to much more cumbersome population analysis, which is not performed in routine laboratory testing.
298
Full Resistance to Glycopeptides
Full vancomycin resistance (MIC ≥ 16 mg/L for S. aureus) has been 
known for more than two decades in Enterococcus  spp.299 In these 
organisms, glycopeptide resistance results from the acquisition of either Tn1546 or Tn 1547, two transposons that encode for a series of genes 
that modify the d-ala-d-ala terminal of the bacterial peptidoglycan 
precursor, the very target of glycopeptide compounds, to d-ala- d-lactate. 
The modified d-ala-d-lactate–containing precursor has a low affinity for glycopeptides and therefore confers resistance. Tn 1546, which encodes 
the so-called VanA resistance phenotype, could be transferred to S. 
aureus  experimentally.
300 Thus, the recent emergence of fully vancomycin-
resistant S. aureus (VRSA) that expresses the VanA phenotype among 
human clinical isolates is not astonishing. Only 14 cases were described in the United States until 2015,
301 but these organisms must be taken 
seriously. First, most patients had evidence of previous MRSA and enterococcal infection, but not all had received vancomycin. Thus, transfer of the transposon may occur by more generalized triggering effects, perhaps involving unrelated antibiotics. Second, the VRSA phenotype may be missed with routine automated antibiotic susceptibility testing
302 and could be more prevalent than observed. Third, new cases 
were described in hospitals in the Middle East.303 Fourth, bloodstream 
isolates of both methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant, but fully vancomycin-resistant, have been described in Brazil. The conjugative plasmid carrying the vanA  cluster has been identified, and in vitro 
transfer demonstrated.
304,305 Finally, a few isolates of VanA-positive MRSA 
were recovered in a screen of river surface water in Turkey.306 Taken 
together, this information indicates that VRSA is pending and warrants constant attention in the diagnostic laboratory.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2416Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
8 mg/L compared with a baseline of 2  mg/L. Howe ver, plasmid-mediated 
high-level resistance was also detected in clinical isolates of S. aureus 
and of S. epidermidis  (MIC, 8 and >257 mg/L, respectively).336 The 
resistance gene (cfr) encodes a 23S rRNA methylase that confers cross-
resistance to other drugs that bind at the same site, including chloram -
phenicol, lincosamides (i.e., clindamycin), and streptogramin A.337 
Plasmid-born cfr was recently reported in several isolates from livestock 
in Europe and from human patients in the United States and Ireland.338,339 
Nevertheless, the overall rate of linezolid resistance in S. aureus  clinical 
isolates remains very low ( <1%) even after more than 15 years of use.340,341
The newer semisynthetic tedizolid derivative, approved both in the 
United States and in Europe for SSTI, has 2× to 8 × lower MICs than 
parent linezolid for MRSA and is not affected by cfr-mediated resistance.342 
It is noteworthy, however, that the improved in vitro efficacy is partially 
offset by a greater binding to plasma proteins—that is, 85% as compared with 30% for linezolid.
343 In two phase III trials of acute skin and skin 
structure bacterial infections, tedizolid 200  mg once da ily for 6 days 
compared favorably with linezolid 600  mg twice daily for 10 days.344
Quinolones
Quinolones are an important class in the antiinfective armamentarium. They originated in the 1960s as a byproduct from the synthesis of antimalarial quinines. Fluorinated derivatives such as ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, and ofloxacin appeared in the 1980s. They had low MICs 
(on the order of 0.01  mg/L) for mos t gram-negative pathogens. However, 
the MIC for gram-positive bacteria was relatively high (0.25–2  mg/L 
for Staphylococcus  spp. and Streptococcus  spp.)345 and close to therapeutic 
concentrations in the serum of humans (2  mg/L for pe ak concentration 
of ciprofloxacin). Use of these borderline active drugs against MRSA facilitated the selection for resistant derivatives. The prevalence of quinolone resistance in HCA-MRSA has been around 90% for a long time and is close to 40% in CA-MRSA,
229,346 which makes older and 
newer quinolones mostly inappropriate against MRSA.
Mechanisms of Resistance
Known quinolone-resistance mechanisms result from chromosomal mutations (see Table 194.6). Plasmid-mediated resistance has been described in gram-negative pathogens and is associated with the qnr 
gene, which protects the quinolone targets.
347 A qnr-like gene has been 
described in Enterococcus faecalis  and could confer resistance to S. 
aureus.348 However, such a mechanism was not yet described in clinical 
isolates.
Quinolone resistance proceeds by two types of mechanisms, including 
overexpression of the efflux pump NorA349 and structural mutations in 
the quinolone targets topoisomerase IV (grlA  and grlB ) and gyrase 
(gyrA, gyrB) genes.350 Resistance is acquired stepwise. A first grlA 
mutation, which occurs at frequencies of 10−7 to 10−8, produces a moderate 
increase in MIC (e.g., 0.5–2  mg/L of cipr ofloxacin) that is still considered 
susceptible (< 4 mg/L). However, this first mutation paves the way to a 
second mutation in the gyrA gene, which, combined with the grlA 
mutation, results in high-level resistance. Because the initial grlA mutation 
jeopardizes the efficacy of quinolones, it is critical to avoid selecting it at first, by ensuring appropriate drug levels in the blood and tissues.
Older quinolones readily select for such alterations, yielding highly 
resistant organisms after only a few serial exposures to the drug.
351 
Quinolones with improved anti–gram-positive activity (levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, gatifloxacin, garenoxacin) are less selective. However, they may still select for higher resistance levels in bacteria that already acquired a first degree ( grlA
 mutants) of ciprofloxacin resistance (MIC, 2–8  mg/L).
The newer agent delafloxacin might be more promising. Its modified 
chemical structure ensures dual binding to gyrase and topoisomerase IV , thus resulting in 10 to 100 times lower MICs then previous qui -
nolones, including against grlA mutants, in addition to insensitivity 
to NorA-mediated efflux.
352 At the time of writing, delafloxacin is still 
investigational.237
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic criteria help predict qui -
nolone efficacy and risk for resistance. Efficacy was predicted by peak drug-level/MIC ratios of 8 or more and ratios of area under the concentration-time curve/MIC of 100 or more.
353 With regard to 
resistance prevention, in vitro and in vivo experiments have suggested but susceptible to lincosamides and streptogramin B) because the drug might select for constitutive MLS
B mutants, which are resistant to the 
whole group of compounds.321
Newer drugs of the ketolide subfamily, including telithromycin and 
solithromycin, have a greater ribosomal affinity, are poor erm inducers, 
and have lower MICs than erythromycin for S. aureus.322 However, they 
are still affected by constitutive expression of erm and thus are not 
useful against these types of organisms, which include the majority of HCA-MRSA isolates.
322–324
In the laboratory, the MLS B resistance phenotype is detected with 
the disk diffusion D-test in which erythromycin and clindamycin disks are placed at a distance on a plate inoculated with bacteria and the diffusion of erythromycin toward the clindamycin disk induces clindamycin resistance. As a result, the zone of inhibition around the clindamycin disk takes a D shape.
321 In contrast, constitutive MLS B 
resistance yields no inhibition zone at all around the clindamycin.
Drug Efflux
Active macrolide efflux has been reported in both streptococci and staphylococci.
325,326 In S. pyogenes  and Streptococcus pneumoniae,  efflux 
is mediated by the mefA  and mefE  genes, respectively, which are members 
of the major facilitator transporter and export only macrolides (M-resistance phenotype). S. aureus  and CoNS may contain msrA,  which 
belongs to the complex ABC-transporter (adenosine triphosphate [ATP]–binding cassette) set of genes
325 and confers resistance to both 
macrolides and streptogramin B (MS-resistance phenotype). In contrast to major facilitators, ABC transporters use ATP hydrolysis as a source of energy for active efflux. The msrA complex is located on a plasmid and is frequently observed in MLS
B-resistant CoNS. It can be transferred 
into S. aureus,325 but its clinical relevance for MLS B resistance is unclear 
because it is rarely detected in clinical isolates.327 Of note, lincosamides 
(e.g., clindamycin) are not subject to efflux by these pumps.
Constitutive MLS B resistance, associated or not with drug efflux, is 
extremely frequent (>90%) in HCA-MRSA.324 Therefore, use of MLS B 
drugs should never be considered against such organisms. The only exception is the quinupristin-dalfopristin combination (streptogramin B and A; see “ Alternative Treatments ”). In contrast, only 5% of CA-MRSA 
isolates are reported as clindamycin resistant and mostly are of the inducible phenotype.
153,328 Thus, clindamycin remains a therapeutic 
option against CA-MRSA.
Oxazolidinones
The oxazolidinone linezolid prevents initiation of protein synthesis by binding to the 23S rRNA of the 50S ribosomal subunit, near its interface with the 30S subunit. It is active only against gram-positive bacteria and is essentially bacteriostatic. It is approved in the United States for complicated SSTI and nosocomial pneumonia from susceptible organ -
isms, including MRSA. Although originally controversial, linezolid was shown to be superior to vancomycin against MRSA nosocomial pneumonia (daptomycin cannot be used in pulmonary infections) in a randomized double-blind study.
329 A systematic review on infective 
endocarditis from multiresistant bacteria, including 18 MRSA and vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus  (VISA) isolates, reported a success 
rate of about 60%, which suggests that compassionate use of linezolid might be an option in such complicated situations.
330 Moreover, evidence-
based reviews indicate that it is equal to vancomycin in a number of clinical situations
331 including osteomyelitis in children.332
One asset of linezolid is that it can be administered orally and thus 
is useful for outpatient therapy. Another is that, like clindamycin, it inhibits the secretion of TSST-1 and other toxins and should be con -
sidered against toxin-associated infections, including CA-MRSA hemorrhagic pneumonia.
268,333 On the other hand, linezolid is not suitable 
for long-term (>28 days) therapy because prolonged treatment may be associated with thrombocytopenia, sometimes peripheral or optic neuropathy, and lactic acidosis.
334
Linezolid resistance has been reported episodically in clinical settings. 
It is primarily the result of mutations in the 23S rRNA gene.335 Because 
staphylococci harbor six to seven copies of rRNA genes, mutation in only one of them does not yield high-level resistance at once. MIC increments are progressive, and MICs of such mutants are usually 4 to 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2417Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)All three compounds are active against antibiotic-susceptible and 
antibiotic-resistant (including vancomycin) gram-positive pathogens and 
showed efficacy in various animal infection models. In a double-blind 
complicated SSTI trial, dalbavancin given once weekly for 2 weeks (1  g 
at day 1 and 0.5  g at day 8, IV) wa s highly effective (success rate, >90%) 
and comparable to linezolid given twice a day (600  mg IV q12h; may be  
later switched to oral therapy) for the same length of time.363 Oritavancin 
given 1200  mg IV  once for acute SSTI, including MRSA infections, gave 
comparable results to vancomycin 1  g (or 15 to 20  mg/kg) IV q12h for 
7 to 10 days.364 The high cost of dalbavancin and oritavancin appears to 
factor in the cost of intravenous vancomycin administration.
Of note, however, high binding to plasma protein may hamper 
diffusion of the drug inside therapeutic sanctuaries such as abscesses or infected vegetations. This limitation was demonstrated years ago with teicoplanin
365 and might have been responsible for recently described 
treatment failure of dalbavancin in right-sided S. aureus endocarditis.366 
Data are lacking regarding use of this drug family against severe S. 
aureus  infections.
Alternatives Against Severe Infections
There is a notorious lack of good alternatives for use in deep-seated or life-threatening infection. Vancomycin is one of the first choices in such situations. However, poor response to vancomycin may occur in a substantial proportion of patients because the drug is poorly bactericidal and selects for resistant mutants.
282,283,297
Combination Therapy
Combining vancomycin with an aminoglycoside increases in vitro bactericidal activity. However, the clinical benefit of adding aminogly -
cosides to vancomycin is not demonstrated, and both kidney and ototoxic -
ity are a matter of concern.
367
An interesting alternative is to take advantage of the vancomycin– β-
lactam or vancomycin-daptomycin seesaw effects,318 as discussed in the 
“Daptomycin ” section earlier. The fact that resistance to methicillin or 
daptomycin and resistance to vancomycin are mutually exclusive has yielded several successful therapeutic attempts.
368 An open-label study 
in MRSA bacteremia demonstrated that combining vancomycin with flucloxacillin shortened the duration of bacteremia to 1.94 days, as compared with 3 days with vancomycin.
369 Moreover, the so-called 
CAMERA2 trial is now studying vancomycin or daptomycin combina -
tions with antistaphylococcal β-lactams (flucloxacillin, cloxacillin, or cefazolin) on a larger scale.
370
In addition, there is a growing interest in combining fosfomycin 
plus β-lactams (e.g., imipenem) as a rescue therapy for complicated 
MRSA bacteremia or endocarditis.371 This combination is still being 
evaluated.
β-Lactams With Improved Penicillin-Binding 
Protein 2A Affinity
Improving the affinity of β-lactams for MRSA-specific PBP2A has been 
the purpose of intensive research.278 Work on the structure of PBP2A and 
potential blocking of PBP2A– β-lactams indicates that the active site of 
the enzyme is closed in the resting state and thus difficult to reach with 
the drug. However, when the enzyme is exposed to cell wall precursors or β-lactams with appropriate pharmacophores, allosteric interactions 
at other portions of PBP2A trigger opening of the active site, providing access to the precursors or to the blocking drug.
372 The success of this 
interaction probably depends on the hydrophobic pentaglycine side chain of the precursor (see Figs. 194.12 and 194.13) and thus on the presence of hydrophobic pharmacophores on the β-lactam molecule.
278 
This poses solubility problems, which were solved by delivering the compound as a prodrug, as in ceftobiprole medocaril.
Ceftaroline is the first of these agents approved for use in the 
United States for complicated skin and skin structure infections and nonstaphylococcal community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). It has activity 
against MSSA and MRSA, with MICs for MRSA of 0.5 to 2  mg/L, and 
0.12 to 0.25  mg/L for MSSA. The “ AW ARE” susceptibility survey, which 
gathered 21,046 S. aureus  isolates from 42 US centers from 2010 to 2016, 
showed persistent ( >97%) susceptibility to ceftaroline.341 Ceftaroline was 
equivalent to ceftriaxone in MSSA pneumonia; MRSA pneumonia was not that drug dosage might be adjusted on so-called mutation prevention concentration, which is two to four times higher than the MIC, rather than on MIC.
354 However, the clinical relevance of mutation prevention 
concentrations has not yet been assessed.
Alternative Treatments
Treatment of infections from multiresistant HCA-MRSA may be problematic. The activity of all available drugs must be tested against the isolate to establish whether some could still be used. Evaluation of the severity of the disease is also important because not all drugs are equally appropriate in serious conditions.
Alternatives Against Non–Life- 
Threatening Infections
Superficial and non–life-threatening infections may respond to a variety 
of drugs, including TMP-SMX, to which HCA-MRSA and CA-MRSA are often susceptible, combined or not with other substances such as rifampin. Other alternatives include the agents discussed in the following sections.
Tigecycline
A modified version of minocycline from the tetracycline family of molecules, tigecycline is almost universally active against gram-negative and gram-positive pathogens, with the notorious exception of Pseudo -
monas aeruginosa  and a few other gram-negative organisms that can 
extrude the drug via efflux pumps.
355 Tigecycline overcomes current S. 
aureus  tetracycline-resistance mechanisms, including ribosome protection 
and active efflux, and thus is effective against all tetracycline-resistant isolates. It is approved in the United States and Europe for the treatment of complicated SSTI. However, it is strictly bacteriostatic, and no trials on S. aureus–specific severe infections have been reported. It is still 
uniformly efficacious against MRSA in recent antimicrobial surveys.
356 
The drug must be administered intravenously. Increased mortality in the aggregated clinical trials is also a concern.
357 The drug should not 
be used in severe situations.
Aminomethylcyclines
This new class of minocycline derivatives, structurally related to tige -
cycline, includes two recently approved drugs, omadacycline (see Chapter 26) and eravacycline. Both have promising in vitro activity against S. 
aureus , both methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant isolates, 
but insufficient clinical data to estimate their use.
Quinupristin-Dalfopristin
Quinupristin-dalfopristin combines a streptogramin B (quinupristin) and a streptogramin A (dalfopristin).
358 It is active against both MLS B-
susceptible and MLS B-resistant staphylococci. It is highly bactericidal 
against MLS B-susceptible isolates, but tends to be less bactericidal in 
the case of constitutive MLS B resistance, which is practically always the 
case with HCA-MRSA. Standard dosage is 7.5  mg/kg IV q12h, but 
larger doses (7.5  mg/kg q8h) have b een suggested against constitutive 
MLSB resistant strains. Experimental data indicate that combining quinupristin-dalfopristin with a β-lactam increases its activity against 
MRSA, even though the β-lactam is inactive on its own.
359 One limitation 
of quinupristin-dalfopristin is its venotoxicity, which makes it necessary to administer the drug through a central catheter. Arthralgia and myalgia are significant side effects.
Lipoglycopeptides
Semisynthetic derivatives of glycopeptides, lipoglycopeptides carry modifications of specific functional groups. Three lipoglycopeptides are currently approved for SSTIs in the United States: telavancin, dal -
bavancin, and oritavancin.
237,360,361 Like vancomycin, they bind to the 
d-ala-d-ala terminal of peptidoglycan precursors, thus inhibiting both transpeptidation and transglycosylation. In addition, the presence of lipophilic pharmacophores allows the molecules to interact with the plasma membrane, which leads to dispersion of the membrane potential and rapid bacterial killing. Their lipophilic nature confers high binding (≥90%) to plasma proteins and thus prolongs their plasma half-life.
362 
For instance, dalbavancin can be given only once a week.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2418Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
membrane lipids with the scaffold protein “flotillin, ” with which statins 
interfere. Thus, statins alter both eukaryotes and prokaryotes,388 in which 
they may restore susceptibility to antibiotics—that is, to methicillin and its derivatives in the case of MRSA. This remarkable antibacterial benefit of statins, associated with additional in vitro
392 and clinical 
observations,389,390 warrants further scrutiny.
Another antibiotic sensitization study addressed the eradication of 
intracellular S. aureus  persistence. It showed that conjugating antibody 
and antibiotics in a system in which antibiotics became activated only in the phagolysosomes was superior to vancomycin in eliminating intracellular S. aureus and treating bacteremia in mice.
393 However, 
once again, the limitation may be the antiphagocytic strategies of  
S. aureus.
Phage Lysins
Phage lysins and phage therapy are coming close to clinical applicabil -
ity.394,395 Phages produce peptidoglycan hydrolases (lysins) to burst the 
host bacteria and release their progeny at the end of their replication cycle. Lysins can be purified and used to lyse gram-positive bacteria very effectively from the outside. Gram-negative bacteria are protected from outside-in lysin diffusion by their outer membrane and are thus naturally resistant to lysin therapy. Several anti– S. aureus phage lysins 
were produced, and demonstrated potent in vitro and in vivo activity in animal models
396–398; however, few successful cases of treatment of 
refractory S. aureus skin infections in humans have been reported.399 
Lysins are not yet available for routine clinical use, but two prospective clinical trials are underway in S. aureus dermatitis
400 and BSIs (https://
clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03163446?term=cf-301&rank=1).
An interesting development of lysins in the field of immunomodula -
tion is via so-called lysibodies.387 It consists of fusing a lysin peptidoglycan-
binding domain to an IgG Fc fragment. The lysin peptidoglycan-binding domain of the construct binds to the conserved peptidoglycan and exposes its Fc portion at the bacterial surface. The Fc portion attracts complement and professional phagocytes and promoted bacterial clearance both in vitro and in a mouse sepsis model.
387 It remains to 
be determined whether S. aureus will be able to circumvent lysibodies via their immune escape armamentarium (discussed in “ Immune Evasion ” 
earlier).
Phage Therapy
The strategy of phage therapy is generating growing interest.395 Phages 
have been used against bacteria since the early 1920s, but were abandoned in Western countries after the introduction of antibiotics. In contrast, phages were continuously developed in the countries of the former Soviet Union, particularly at the Eliava Institute in Tbilisi, Georgia.
401 Phages 
are very rapidly bactericidal and can synergize with antibiotics.402 Aside 
from ample experience from the Eastern countries, no reported phase III comparative clinical trials on phage therapy have been performed, with the exception of the multicenter European Phagoburn study on burn wounds infected with P . aeruginosa  (http://www.phagoburn.eu), 
the results of which are still preliminary. On the other hand, there are recent case reports on successful phage therapy of S. aureus osteomyelitis 
and diabetic ulcers,
401,403 and at least one ongoing phase I study using 
anti– S. aureus phages in chronic rhinosinusitis is planned (https://
www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id =368275). 
Phage therapy is promising, but it still requires careful comparative assessment.
Vaccines
Vaccination is a very important area of research both in human and in veterinary medicine. However, considering the arsenal of immune evasion strategies of S. aureus (discussed in “ Immune Evasion ” earlier), this 
issue is an immense challenge. Vaccines pursue one of three aims: blocking the effect of toxins, blocking the functional surface adhesins or other relevant proteins, or stimulating phagocytosis. Experimental vaccines have been developed by a variety of means, including DNA vaccines, and against constituents as diverse as the capsule or specific surface determinants, including PBP2A and adhesins. Most of these vaccines conferred some protection in experimental models, and in one trial a conjugated capsular vaccine conferred promising but transient systematically studied. Ceftaroline has been examined in parallel studies of complicated skin and skin structure S. aureus  infections in comparison 
with vancomycin-aztreonam. The ceftaroline-vancomycin population microbiologic profiles consisted of 73.4% and 84% 
S. aureus infection 
(34.3% and 32% MRSA; 39.9% and 50.9% MSSA), respectively. Clinical cure rates were 95.1% and 91.4%, respectively, with microbiologic and adverse event outcomes that were similar to those in the comparator.
373,374 
The clinical use of the drug is compromised by the lack of a comparative study in major MRSA diseases, such as bacteremia, endocarditis, and osteomyelitis. Multiple reports have focused on its activity in vitro against isolates nonsusceptible to vancomycin and daptomycin, and its clinical use in combination with other agents for the treatment of severe MRSA infections such as bacteremia and endocarditis, which does not answer the question of whether ceftaroline alone would be an effective treatment.
341,374–376 Case series of salvage treatment in refractory 
MRSA bacteremia, pneumonia, and endocarditis (including prosthetic valve infection) have been reported and suggest that the drug may be an effective option, alone or in combination.
319,377–380
Development of Nonantibiotic and 
Vaccine Strategies
A number of nonantibiotic strategies are being investigated to circumvent 
S. aureus antibiotic resistance. These encompass novel AMPs, virulence modulators, antibiotic resensitization, immunomodulation, bacterio -
phages (phages), phage endolysins (lysins), and vaccines.
Antimicrobial Peptides
AMPs include primarily cathelicidin-like peptides purified from various animal or insect venoms, and synthetic derivatives of them.
381,382 AMPs 
are positively charged amphiphilic peptides. It was recently shown that artificially increasing their charges increased their bactericidal activity as well.
383 On the other hand, S. aureus resists the detrimental effect of 
AMPs by increasing the charge of its own cell wall or plasma membrane via the dlt  operon and mprF,  which act as repelling factors (discussed 
in “Immune Evasion ” earlier).
142 Whether increasing the AMP charges 
will upset the bacterial resistance mechanism is not clear. Moreover, AMPs still have relatively high MICs for S. aureus.
383
Virulence Modulation
Virulence modulators include primarily inhibitors of SortA, which block the anchoring of S. aureus surface adhesins
96,98; iron-capturing deter -
minants, which also promote infection97,99,102,384; and inhibitors of agr,  
which block the secretion of toxins.61,64 Although the blocking of surface 
protein and toxin secretion is conceptually sound, none of these methods reached total protection in animal models.
385,386
Because S. aureus virulence results from the intertwining of both 
surface-attached and secreted factors, one should ideally administer the two kinds of inhibitors simultaneously to prevent or damper infection severity. However, although promising, this method will probably not offset the need to eradicate the microorganisms from the infection site.
Immunomodulation
Reports on the production of IL-17A by γ/δ T cells and the benefit of 
IL-17A in stimulating innate immunity and impeding skin and nasal colonization by S. aureus are quite promising
156,157 (see also “ Escaping 
Cell-Mediated Immunity” earlier). Another strategy consists of sensitizing S. aureus cells to complement and phagocytes, referred to as “lysibod-ies”
387; this is described in the “ Phage Lysins ” section later. Whether 
prescribing IL-17A or lysibodies will be beneficial in humans remains to be determined.
Antibiotic Resensitization
Statins have pleiotropic effects that alter membrane compartmentalization in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes
388 and were associated with improved 
clinical outcomes in infected patients.389,390 In the case of MRSA, it was 
recently shown that antibiotic resensitization was due to altered PBP2A positioning.
391 The authors demonstrated that PBP2A positioning in 
the cell membrane depended on the dynamics of “functional mem -
brane micro-domains” (FMMs), which are the bacterial equivalent of  
membrane rafts in eukaryotic cells. FMMs depend on the interaction of 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2419Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)Risk Factors for Staphylococcus aureus 
Infection
Population-based studies have consistently identified male and very 
young and elderly individuals as being at increased risk for S. aureus 
infections. Moreover, two studies showed that the most important risk factor is necessity for dialysis, either peritoneal (relative risk [RR], 150–204) or hemodialysis (RR, 257–291). Other conditions that increase the risk of invasive S. aureus  infections include diabetes (RR, 7), cancer 
(RR, 7.1–12.9), rheumatoid arthritis (RR, 2.2–9.2), human immuno-deficiency virus (HIV) infection (RR, 23.7), intravenous drug use (RR, 10.1), and alcohol abuse (RR, 8.2; Table 194.7).
420,433
Rare but classic predisposing factors also encompass chemotactic 
and phagocytosis defects. Inheritable chemotactic defects include Job syndrome, Chédiak-Higashi syndrome, Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, and Down syndrome. Job syndrome  is a condition that involves recurrent 
eczema with repeated skin infections and cold abscesses. Chédiak-Higashi 
syndrome  is defined clinically by albinism and recurrent S. aureus 
infections and cytologically by giant granules in phagocytic and other cells. Acquired chemotactic defects are also relatively rare and include rheumatoid arthritis and decompensated acidotic diabetes mellitus. Opsonic defects, whether inherited or acquired, are predisposing factors for all kinds of pyogenic infections and are not specific for S. aureus. 
They are exemplified by selective or combined hypogammaglobulinemias and various kinds of complement defects.
However, one of the most important factors that independently adds 
to all these predisposing conditions is chronic S. aureus nasal carriage 
(see later discussion). Whether they are in the hospital or in the com -
munity, patients mostly become infected with their own carriage strain.
24 
Therefore it has been proposed that patients at high risk for S. aureus 
nasal or cutaneous carriage should be screened, and in positive cases should be decontaminated with mupirocin ointments or other means (Table 194.8).
434 Implementation of this policy for selected patients 
admitted to the hospital should be considered.26
The Burden of Antibiotic Resistance
At the beginning of last decade, MRSA was one of the most commonly identified antibiotic-resistant pathogens in many parts of the world.
247,421 
During the period from 2000 to 2005, the proportion of hospital-onset S. aureus infections that were methicillin resistant peaked to 56.2% in US hospitals,
435 a proportion that was even higher (64.4%) in US ICUs. 
For some years now, surveillance programs from various areas have reported a steady decrease in the incidence of MRSA infections in the community
436 and in health care437 or military settings,438 the largest 
decrease being observed among hospital-onset MRSA infections411 (see 
“Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus ” earlier).
In contrast to the diversity of strains observed in diseases caused 
by MSSA, MRSA outbreaks are caused by a limited number of successful clones.
439,440 In the health care setting, HCA-MRSA infections are 
associated with greater lengths of stay,441 higher mortality,442 and increased 
costs.419 Whether MRSA is more virulent than MSSA is still a matter 
of debate. The molecular typing of thousands of carriage- and disease-associated S. aureus  strains revealed that MRSA did not represent specific 
lineages and that all types of S. aureus can become invasive given the 
appropriate circumstances.
443 On the other hand, most MRSA infections 
are mainly of nosocomial origin and manifest as complications of health care procedures or underlying disorders. In this specific context, patient differences could account for the variation in mortality because a greater number of older patients with severe underlying disease contract MRSA infections.
442 In addition, ineffective or delay in effective antibiotic therapy 
could also play a large role in suboptimal response to therapy.444
CA-MRSA has now become the most frequent cause of SSTIs 
acquired in the community.445 Groups with high-intensity physical 
contact are particularly affected. This includes competitive athletes, children in daycare centers, military recruits, injections drug users, jailed inmates, and men who have sex with men.
254 Five percent to 10% 
of CA-MRSA infections are invasive and can cause severe, sometimes fatal disease, such as necrotizing pneumonia, bacteremia, or necrotizing fasciitis
446 (see “ Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus ” earlier). 
Successful CA-MRSA clones have established themselves as nosocomial pathogens and are now a common cause of health care–associated protection in patients on hemodialysis.404 A trial using a vaccine targeted 
on the IsdB iron-binding LPXTG-bound protein to prevent deep sternal wound infections did not provide protection and paradoxically increased the mortality rate in S. aureus–infected patients.
405
One critical point regarding extrapolation of results in mouse 
models to human is that mouse thrombocytes do not carry a platelet immunoglobulin Fc receptor similar to FcγRIIA in human thrombo-cytes.
406 As discussed in the “ Contribution of Coagulation ” section, 
S. aureus activates platelets and hijacks them to colonize tissues with inflamed or injured endothelia. Hence, antibodies directed to the S. 
aureus  surface expose Fc fragments that in turn activate platelets via 
FcγRIIA (in humans) instead of binding complement and attracting 
leukocytes, and help channel staphylococcal aggregates to injured tissues. In contrast, this is not expected to occur in the case of neutralizing antibodies that are directed against soluble toxins, which might be a better option. These opposed effects of surface-directed versus toxin-directed antibodies are convincingly supported by studies examining vaccination against experimental PVL-related  
pneumonia.
407
As yet, no approved antistaphylococcal vaccine is available for clinical 
use, but there is one pending phase I/II study targeting leukocidins (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/results/NCT01011335?term =staphy
lococcus+aureus&draw=5&rank=43), and hope still exists regarding the targeting of mixtures of S. aureus surface-bound and secreted 
determinants.
408
CLINICAL ASPECTS  
AND EPIDEMIOLOGY
Over the last 2 decades, the increase in medical procedures such as 
major operations, chronic dialysis, organ transplantation, and cancer chemotherapy has profoundly modified the epidemiology of S. aureus 
infections worldwide. With the recent rise in invasive procedures, S. 
aureus  has become a leading cause of nosocomial and health care–related 
infections.
409,410 Along with the pressure toward shorter lengths of stay 
in acute-care settings, increasing numbers of such health care–related S. aureus infections are now diagnosed in subacute or long-term care facilities.
411,412
S. aureus  invasive infections consistently result in mortality rates as 
high as 20% to 30%,413–415 especially when associated with antibiotic 
resistance (i.e., methicillin resistance)411 or when occurring in acutely 
critically ill patients416 or in patients with chronic conditions such as 
hemodialysis.417 This translates to an important social and economic 
burden: Inpatients with S. aureus  infection had a hospital stay that was 
three times longer (14.3 vs. 4.5 days), charges that were three times higher (US $48,824 vs. $14,141), and a risk of in-hospital death that was five times greater (11.2% vs. 2.3%).
418 Additional costs incurred 
because of methicillin resistance were estimated in 2015 to be approxi -
mately $3.3 billion yearly for US intensive care units (ICUs).419
Clinical Spectrum
S. aureus is responsible for an array of infections wherein it is either present at the infection site or acts at a distance by secreting toxins (see “Regulation and Virulence Determinants ” section). Incidence rates range 
between 28.4 and 35.4 per 100,000 inhabitants per year
413,420; it causes 
mainly skin and soft tissue infection (40%), lower respiratory tract infection (20%), and BSI (20%).
421
A rising incidence of S. aureus health care–related infections has 
been observed and can be attributed to medical progress.422 The increasing 
number of invasive procedures and the use of inserted or implanted foreign bodies has indeed created a unique niche for this versatile bacterium, which is very well equipped with numerous virulence factors (see “ The Journey to Invasive Disease ” earlier). Accordingly, S. aureus 
is a leading cause of surgical site infections (SSIs; 20%–45% of cases),
409,423 
catheter-related bloodstream infections (CRBSIs; 13%–40% of cases),409,424 
and ventilator-associated pneumonia (25%–28% of cases).409,425
In the community, it is also one of the primary causes of native 
and prosthetic valve endocarditis (23%–30% of cases)422,426–428 and the 
leading organism responsible for osteoarticular infections (40%–70% of cases).
429–431 Finally, S. aureus is the second most frequent cause 
of community-onset bacteremia after Escherichia coli  (15%–23.5%).432
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2420Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
(30% of healthy people, 16%–70%), and noncarriers (50% of healthy 
people, 16%–69%).20 Persistent carriers differ markedly from others: 
They carry the same strain for extended periods of time, have higher S. aureus  loads, and are at higher risk of acquiring S. aureus  infections.
22,451 
Because intermittent carriers and noncarriers share similar characteristics, such as a low risk of infection, identical S. aureus nasal elimination 
kinetics, and comparable antistaphylococcal antibody profiles, it has been proposed that S. aureus carriage be reclassified such that only 
persistent carriers are distinguished from others.
451
Bacterial and host determinants for S. aureus carriage have been 
thoroughly investigated.452 In contrast to toxins, staphylococcal cell 
surface–associated and immune evasion molecules seem to be important for colonization efficacy
453 (see “ The Journey to Invasive Disease ” earlier). 
If some results suggest a role for cell wall teichoic acid, SdrC, SdrD, and SasG in binding to squamous cells in vitro, only ClfB and IsdA have been shown to be associated with S. aureus  carriage in humans.
454,455 
Patients exposed to skin lesions have a greater risk of S. aureus nasal 
carriage. They include patients with insulin-dependent diabetes, patients undergoing hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis, intravenous drug users, patients with recurrent S. aureus skin infections or atopic dermatitis, patients with HIV , and healthy patients receiving repeated injections for allergies.
452
Carriage rates vary with geographic location, age, sex, and ethnicity. 
Most infants become colonized shortly after birth, usually with the same strain as their mother. Carriage then decreases with age (40%–60% at 2 months, and 21%–28% at 6 months), reflecting both the development of an immune response to S. aureus and competition between micro -
organisms in the nasopharynx. This is particularly true for S. aureus 
and S. pneumoniae  because being a S. pneumoniae  carrier is inversely 
associated with S. aureus carriage and vice versa.
456,457 Children and 
adolescents younger than 20 years seem to have higher persistent carriage rates than adults. Since 2000, the reported prevalence rate of S. aureus 
nasal colonization has decreased to 20% to 30%.
458 Explanations for 
this decline might include improved personal hygiene, changes in socioeconomic class, and smaller families.
22
Traditionally, control of S. aureus has been focused on preventing 
cross-infection between patients. However, at least three sets of observations indicate that nasal carriage of S. aureus is an important risk factor for sepsis: persistent carriers have higher rates of infections than others
22; a 
large proportion of nosocomial S. aureus  infections originate from patients’ 
own flora24; and eradication of carriage reduces nosocomial infections, 
especially after orthopedic and cardiosurgery-related infections.26,459hospital-onset infections, especially BSIs.447,448 Compared with HCA-
MRSA, CA-MRSA retained susceptibility to many non– β-lactam 
antibiotics. If hospital-associated MRSA infections appear to be on the decline, only modest changes have been reported for CA-MRSA  
so far.
449
Carriage of Staphylococcus aureus
The primary reservoirs of S. aureus are the anterior nares, but the 
organism can be isolated from other sites, especially the throat.450 
Traditionally, three patterns of carriage have been distinguished: persistent carriers (20% of healthy people, range 12%–30%), intermittent carriers TABLE 194.7  Risk of Invasive Staphylococcus aureus Infection Associated With Selected Underlying 
Conditions in Adults 20 Years Old or Older
UNDERLYING CONDITIONNO. OF PATIENTS WITH 
INVASIVE S. AUREUS 
INFECTION (N = 226)ANNUAL INCIDENCE, PER 100,000 RR (95% CI)P VALUE
Hemodialysis 24 7692 257.2 (161.0–393.6) <.001
Peritoneal dialysis 3 4918 150.0 (30.5–44.1) <.001
HIV infection 4 778 23.7 (6.4–61.4) <.001
Solid-organ transplantation 3 683 20.7 (4.2–61.3) <.001
Heart disease 114 362 20.6 (15.8–27.0) <.001
Cancer 47 348 12.9 (9.1–17.8) <.001
Illicit intravenous drug use 13 321 10.1 (5.3–17.7) <.001
Alcohol abuse 31 241 8.2 (5.4–12.0) <.001
Diabetes mellitus 48 192 7.0 (5.0–9.7) <.001
Stroke 16 200 6.4 (3.6–10.6) <.001
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 26 120 3.9 (2.5–5.9) <.001
Systemic lupus erythematosus 2 80 2.4 (0.3–8.7) .3
Rheumatoid arthritis 5 74 2.2 (0.7–5.3) .1
CI, Confidence interval; HIV, human immunodeficiency virus; RR, relative risk.
Modified from Laupland KB, Church DL, Mucenski M, et  al. Population-based study of the epidemiology of and the risk factors for invasive Staphylococcus aureus 
infections. J Infect Dis . 2003;187:1452–1459.
TABLE 194.8  Example of Decontaminating 
Scheme for Patients Colonized or Infected With 
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus 
(MRSA)
Protective Measures
Put patient in contact isolation (one or several contaminated patients in single 
room with restricted access)
Use protective gown and gloves
Use protective mask and glasses if risk for splashing of contaminated liquidsClean hands with alcoholic solution at glove removal and between caregiving 
procedures
Leave any disposable item in room and discard for sterilization in special 
containers
Decontamination Measures
Apply nasal mupirocin (2%) every 8 hours for 5–7 daysApply chlorhexidine-based oral spray three to four times a day for 5–7 daysTake daily shower or clean body thoroughly with chlorhexidine-based soap for 
5–7 days
In the case of dental prostheses, clean and soak the prosthesis daily in 
chlorhexidine-based solution for 5–7 days
Control Cultures and Decision
Take control swabs of any contaminated sites 48 and 96 hours after the end of 
treatment
Keep isolation measures in force until laboratory results are availableIf no MRSA is present in control cultures, consider patient decontaminated; 
discontinue isolation, and swab weekly for follow-up cultures.
If MRSA is present in control cultures, pursue isolation measures and repeat 
whole decontamination scheme
Modified from Current Recommendations at the University Hospital of Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2421Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)About 5% of health care workers become colonized with MRSA, 
and it has long been recommended to decolonized them.469 However, 
health care workers most frequently act as vectors of transmission, not 
as main sources of MRSA. A study reported in 2017 demonstrated the limited role of the environment and health care workers in transmis -
sion of S. aureus to patients.
458 The worrying trend of increasing rates 
of MRSA has now been reversed in many high-income countries. In this context, should we still target high-risk pathogens, or should we instead protect patient populations that are susceptible to infection from many health care–associated pathogens? Indeed, universal practices such as hand hygiene and chlorhexidine body washings
470 or specific 
measures to reduce the rate of CRBSIs including use of chlorhexidine sponges
471,472 helped decrease the rates of infection not only with MRSA 
but also with other pathogens.473 Infection-control measures should 
therefore be regarded as a whole and should not target only a specific  
pathogen.474
CLINICAL SYNDROMES
Infection begins with the colonization of target tissues by the microbes. Further spread results from more specific invasion processes, during which bacteria interact directly or indirectly (e.g., via toxins) with the host. Thus, any localized infection has the potential to become the seeding site of a more severe infection by means of contiguous extension, distant spread through the blood circulation, or production of toxins including TSST-1 and PVL (see “ The Journey to Invasive Disease ” earlier). 
Pyogenic infections are described subsequently
Skin and Soft Tissues Infections
Classification
S. aureus  SSTIs include primary pyoderma (such as folliculitis, furuncles, 
carbuncles, and impetigo) and soft tissue infections (i.e., cellulitis, 
erysipelas, and pyomyositis). They are commonly classified according to the anatomic structure involved (Fig. 194.14): (1) infection of the epidermis—impetigo; (2) infection of the superficial dermis—folliculitis; (3) infection of deep dermis—furuncles, carbuncles, and hidradenitis suppurativa; and (4) infection of subcutaneous cellular tissues—erysipelas, cellulitis, fasciitis, and pyomyositis.
The diagnosis of an S. aureus  SSTI is most frequently made clinically. 
The basic anatomic lesion induced is a pyogenic exudate or an abscess. Superficial infections can often be treated with local care, surgical drainage, and rarely, systemic antibiotics. When the infection penetrates to the deeper subcutaneous tissue and/or surgery is required, it is considered complicated; erysipelas, lymphangitis, lymphadenitis, cellulitis, and necrotizing fasciitis are severe diseases that may be life-threatening. They require hospitalization, systemic antibiotic therapy, and prompt surgical drainage and débridement
184 (Tables 194.9 and 194.10).
Impetigo
Impetigo is a superficial infection of the skin that involves only the epidermis. It affects mostly children, usually on exposed areas of the Carriage of Methicillin-Resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus
The prevalence of MRSA colonization increased from 0.8% in 2001 to 
2002 to 3% in 2011 to 2012.460,461 MRSA colonization is particularly 
important in the hospital environment because colonized and infected patients represent the most important reservoir of MRSA in health care facilities. Factors associated with MRSA carriage at time of hospital admission include prior health care exposure (i.e., nursing home resident or hospitalization in past 12 months), prior contact with nosocomial pathogens (i.e., history of MRSA and/or vancomycin-resistant enterococci [VRE] carriage, history of Clostridioides difficile  [formerly Clostridium 
difficile] infection), or selected comorbid conditions such as diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and congestive heart failure, probably because those conditions lead to repeated hospital exposure.
462
Despite the increasing rate of CA-MRSA infections, the prevalence 
rate of MRSA among persons without typical risk factors remains rela -
tively low, and most MRSA colonization and infection still develop among those who have health care–associated risk factors or contact with other persons who have such risks. When patients known to be colonized with nosocomial MRSA are discharged from the hospital or nursing home into the community, spread to family members or close contacts can occur. Rates of transmission between positive case patients and household members range from less than 10% to 43%. About one-half of MRSA carriers are colonized for 2 months or less, but an estimated 20% are persistent MRSA carriers who remain positive for months  
or years.
463
Preventive Measures to Limit Health Care–
Associated Infections Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus Infections
Health care–associated infections is a leading cause of preventable illness. 
As a major cause of such infections, MRSA has been given priority in infection-control strategies; the United Kingdom and several US states have even mandated anti-MRSA strategies. Typical methods to limit infections by MRSA include a comprehensive set of interventions. Infection-control measures should always involve the laboratory. Determining the clonality of MRSA recovered from several patients is important in order to differentiate sporadic cases of MRSA from more problematic epidemic situations (see “ Molecular Typing ” earlier).
Improving the rational use of antibiotics and the implementation 
of standard precaution and hand hygiene are clearly cornerstones of MRSA prevention and control. Other anti-MRSA bundle measures (e.g., systematic active screening using either rapid or conventional testing, isolation and decolonization of carriers; see Table 194.8) when implemented routinely in settings with endemic MRSA are effective, but their use is a matter of debate because they are economically not cost-effective.
464–466
Screening and isolation of MRSA carriers at admission is a resource-
consuming protective measure still widely used worldwide. Both rapid PCR tests and standard culture methods can help decrease MRSA infection rates in hospitals, particularly in settings with hyperendemic MRSA cross-infections.
465 Decolonization of MRSA carriage has been 
an important part of the control of MRSA dissemination so far. Most 
decontamination regimens recommend a 1-week daily total body washing with a chlorhexidine-based soap, plus nasal mupirocin application (see 
Table 194.8). Low-level mupirocin resistance (MIC, 8–256  mg/L) and 
high-level resistance (MIC, >512 mg/L) exist but are uncommon and 
usually follow prolonged administration.467 Monitoring susceptibility 
is essential to detect appearance of resistance to the decolonizing agent.
Recent Dutch guidelines, which use an aggressive “search and destroy” 
strategy, achieved a rate of up to 80% of eradication.468 They differentiate 
between uncomplicated carriers, who have no associated MRSA infec -
tions, and complicated carriers, who may have skin or deeper infection. Uncomplicated carriers are treated only with topical measures (see Table  
194.8), whereas complicated carriers receive concomitant systemic 
antibiotic such as TMP-SMX (160/800  mg, oral ly q12h) plus rifampin 
(600  mg orally q12h) for 1 week.468 Nevertheless, eradication of MRSA 
carriage is often difficult, and the role of MRSA decolonization in the infection-control measure remains uncertain.
459
Sebaceous
glandEpidermis
Dermal
papillae
Arrector piliDermis
HypodermisHair follicl e
Hair bul b
Merocrin e
sweat glan d
FIG. 194.14  Skin anatomy delineating various levels at which 
Staphylococcus aureus infection can occur (see text for details).  
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2422Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
lesions of various ages. General symptoms are absent, but a local 
inflammatory lymph node reaction is a rule. At the beginning, the differential diagnosis includes other vesicular eruptions, such as herpes simplex and varicella. However, the evolution is typical and rapidly differentiates the diseases. Although of mild severity, the disease is extremely contagious and the affected child should be kept apart from other children until an effective treatment has been applied. A basic treatment that combines disinfection with a chlorhexidine-based or povidone-iodine–based soap and additional bacitracin zinc ointment in patients with limited lesions, or fusidic acid cream (not available in the United States) in cases of more extensive lesions, is generally sufficient. Oral antibiotics are rarely needed. Mupirocin should be reserved for the treatment of S. aureus nasal carriage.
Folliculitis
Folliculitis is defined as a pyoderma that involves the hair follicle and its immediate surroundings. It manifests as a series of raised painful reddish lesions with indurated bases, each of them centered on a hair follicle. Extensive folliculitis of the bearded area of the face is called sycosis barbae.  General symptoms are usually absent, and local antiseptic 
measures are the treatment of choice.
Furuncles and Carbuncles
Furuncles (boils) represent extension of the infectious process involving the hair follicle and are located, by definition, on the hairy areas of the body, with a predilection for the face, neck, axilla, and buttocks. The disease starts as a painful red nodule and rapidly evolves into a hot, 
painful, raised, and indurated lesion with a diameter of 1 to 2  cm. Its 
evolution is characterized by the appearance of a yellowish area in its center. On rupture (either spontaneous or surgical), it liberates a small amount of yellowish creamy discharge of purulent and necrotic material. Secondary foci from autoinoculation are frequent. General symptoms are normally absent. Local treatment is usually sufficient. In case of recurrent episodes, testing for nasal carriage and appropriate eradication may be necessary, although its effectiveness in reducing the risk of recurrence is not clearly shown.
CA-MRSA is a particular issue in furuncles.
254,445 They are often 
centered by a necrotic spot, are multiple, and occur in outbreaks. Lesions can progress to abscesses and cellulitis. In young patients with boils and systemic signs of infection, one must remember the risk of severe hemorrhagic pneumonia (see Fig. 194.8) or necrotizing fasciitis
446 
(discussed in “ The Journey to Invasive Disease ” earlier).
Another remarkable situation is when furuncles are located around 
the nares or upper lip. Such lesions may lead to life-threatening septic thrombophlebitis of the cavernous sinus. Therefore, furuncles in this location should be treated with high-dose parenteral antibiotics.
Carbuncles  are deep-seated infections that involve several hair follicles 
and result from the coalescence and spreading of the infectious process into the depths of subcutaneous tissue. They are usually localized at the base of the neck. The disease leads to the development of a central necrotic crater, which heals with the development of a hard hypertrophic violaceous scar. Fever and malaise are generally present. Carbuncles may be the source of bacteremia and require parenteral antibiotic  
therapy.
Hidradenitis Suppurativa
Hidradenitis suppurativa is a pyogenic infection of the apocrine sweat glands that manifests as crops of furuncles that develop in the axillary, perineal, and genital areas. After spontaneous drainage, hypertrophic scarring may occur. As in furunculosis, treatment is primarily limited to local care and topical disinfectants. Administration of oral antimicrobi -
als is indicated only in the case of systemic symptoms.
Mastitis
Symptoms of mastitis  occur in up to 25% of mothers in the United 
States who are breastfeeding, but the incidence of staphylococcal mastitis necessitating therapy is approximately 2.5%.
476 The infection develops 
most commonly during the second or third week of the puerperium. The diagnosis of mastitis is usually clinical, with patients presenting with focal tenderness in one breast accompanied by fever and malaise. body (e.g., the face and the legs). Primary impetigo occurs via direct bacterial invasion of intact healthy skin, whereas secondary impetigo occurs via infection at sites of minor skin trauma such as abrasions, insect bites, or eczema. Most cases of impetigo are caused by S. aureus, 
S. pyogenes or mixed infections of staphylococci and streptococci.
475
The disease usually starts as a red macule that evolves into vesicles 
that contain cloudy fluid based on the area of erythema (Fig. 194.15). Bullous impetigo is mostly exclusively due to S. aureus  strains producing 
exfoliative toxins (see “ Exfoliative Toxins and Staphylococcal Scalded 
Skin Syndrome ” earlier). The bullae are the result of epidermolytic toxins 
of the serine protease family. The vesicles rapidly rupture and leave a 
yellowish, thick, wet crust with a diameter exceeding 1  cm that is s ur-
rounded by erythema. Most affected children present with multiple TABLE 194.9  Initial Management of Adults With 
Community-Acquired Purulent Skin and Soft Tissue Infections Presumed to Be Staphylococcal (Dosages Given for Patients With Normal  
Renal Function)
1. Incise and drain purulent foci. Consider heat, elevation, and immobilization 
of site.
2. Obtain wound Gram stain, culture, and two blood cultures with 
susceptibility testing.
3. Consider admitting for observation patients who require extensive 
débridement, have large areas of erythema, are elderly, are 
immunosuppressed, have important comorbidities (such as chronic renal failure, morbid obesity, diabetes mellitus), are unable to take medication reliably, or who are clinically unstable.
4. Administer intravenous therapy for hospitalized patients
 A. Initially cover MRSA with
 a. Vancomycin: 15  mg/kg IV q12h
 b. Alternatives include:
 i. Daptomycin: 6  mg/kg IV q24h
 ii. Ceftaroline: 600  mg IV q12h
 B. If cultures grow MSSA, can switch to:
 a. Oxacillin, nafcillin, or flucloxacillin (not in United States): 2  g IV q4h, 
or
 b. Cefazolin: 2  g IV q8h
5. Patients appropriate for outpatient therapy (with follow-up scheduled for 
48–72  h): trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole—2 double-strength tablets 
(320/1600  mg orally q12h)
Alternatives include:
 A. Clindamycin: 300–450  mg orally q8h
 B. Doxycycline or minocycline: 100  mg orally q12h
 C. Linezolid: 600  mg orally q12h
 D. Tedizolid: 200  mg orally q24h
 E. Oritavancin: 1.2  g IV over 3  h once, or dalbavancin 1  g IV over 30  min, 
followed by 500  mg IV 1 week later
 F. If cultures grow MSSA can switch to:
 a. Dicloxacillin: 500  mg orally q6h
 b. Cephalexin: 500  mg orally q6h
MRSA, Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; MSSA, methicillin-susceptible  
S. aureus.
FIG. 194.15  Infective skin lesions in staphylococcal impetigo.  
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2423Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
structures are not involved, release of the stitches, repeated cleansing, 
and antibiotic coverage for 7 to 10 days is usually curative. If the infection involves deeper structures (e.g., bone) or foreign material (e.g., prosthetic devices), prolonged parenteral antibiotic therapy (4–6 weeks) may be necessary, and removal of the foreign material is warranted.
184 The 
evolution of wound infection is highly dependent on the patient’s comorbidities. Healing may be delayed, particularly in vascular insuf-ficiency and diabetes.
Erysipelas, Cellulitis, and Fasciitis
Superficial or deep extension of infection may result in erysipelas, cellulitis, and fasciitis. Erysipelas and fasciitis are commonly the result of S. pyogenes,  but not exclusively. Fasciitis can arise from hematogenous 
seeding. An important common feature of all three entities is severe pain. In the case of erysipelas, soreness is associated with typical skin lesions. In the case of cellulitis or fasciitis, on the other hand, severe pain symptoms are disproportional with regard to the visible anatomic lesions (Fig. 194.16). Hence, high fever, severe local pain, and relatively meager clinical findings at visible examination are highly suggestive of one of these entities. The consideration is important because emergency surgical drainage is indicated in the case of fasciitis, and prompt interven -
tion may be delayed because of the confounding picture.
Erysipelas is a superficial cellulitis with prominent lymphatic involve -
ment, with an indurate, “peau d'orange” appearance with a raised border that is demarcated from normal skin. It often complicates edematous extremities and skin ulcers such as in varicose limbs. As in impetigo, it may be the result of mixed S. pyogenes  and S. aureus  infection. Clinical 
signs of sepsis with high fever are present. In most cases, an etiologic diagnosis is not established. Local sampling with puncture may be attempted, and blood cultures must be drawn. Prompt empirical treatment Treatment includes analgesics, changing breastfeeding technique, and reversing milk stasis, often with the assistance of a lactation consultant. Continued breastfeeding should be encouraged in the presence of mastitis and generally does not pose a risk to the infant. Evidence has suggest that mastitis can be either prevented
477 or treated478 with probiotics such 
as lactobacilli. When antibiotics are needed (i.e., in the presence of acute pain, systemic symptoms, or fever), those effective against S. aureus  
are preferred. Breast abscess is the most common complication of mastitis. It can be prevented with early treatment of mastitis and continued breastfeeding. Once an abscess occurs, surgical drainage or needle aspiration is needed.
Surgical Site Infection
SSIs are infections that occur at or near the incision site within 30 days of the procedure, or within 90 days if prosthetic material is implanted at surgery; they account for 20% to 30% of all hospital-acquired infections.
410 
The commonly reported incidence rate of 2% to 5% of patients undergoing inpatient surgery is probably underestimated because of inadequate postdischarge surveillance.
479 S. aureus is the most prevalent pathogen 
that causes SSI for most types of surgery (15%–45% of cases),409,410,423 
especially after clean procedures. Gram-negative rods and enterococci are, however, the most prevalent pathogens that cause SSI after abdominal surgery.
435 Most infections are caused by S. aureus strains that are carried 
by the patient at admission to the hospital.24 Hence, nasal carriage of S. 
aureus  is a risk factor for subsequent infection in patients undergoing 
surgery, and decolonization has been recommended, especially for patients undergoing orthopedic or cardiothoracic procedures.
480
SSIs are characterized by progressive edema, erythema, and pain 
around the surgical incision. General symptoms are frequently associated. Careful inspection of the wound, ulcer, or lesion is essential. If deeper TABLE 194.10  Suggested Therapy for Native Valve and Prosthetic Valve Endocarditis Caused  
by Staphylococci
ANTIBIOTICFREQUENCY, DOSAGE, 
AND ROUTE DURATION COMMENTS
Native Valves
Methicillin-Susceptible Staphylococci
Flucloxacillin (not in United States) or oxacillin or nafcillin 2 g IV q4h 4–6 wk Addition of gentamicin no longer recommended 
for native valve endocarditis
Cefazolin (or other first-generation cephalosporins)a2 g IV q8h 4–6 wk Alternative for patients allergic to penicillins (not in 
case of immediate-type penicillin hypersensitivity)
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococci
Vancomycin 15–20  mg/kg IV q12h 4–6 wk
Daptomycin 8–10  mg/kg IV q24h 4–6 wk
Prosthetic ValvesMethicillin-Susceptible Staphylococci
b
Flucloxacillin (not in United States) or oxacillin or nafcillin 2 g IV q4h ≥6 wk
with rifampin 900 mg IV q24h or 300  mg 
orally q8h≥6 wk Rifampin increases hepatic metabolism of numerous 
drugs, including warfarin
and gentamicin 3 mg/kg IV q24h or 1  mg/kg 
IM q8h2 wk
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococci
Vancomycin 15–20  mg/kg IV q12h ≥6 wk
plus rifampin 900 mg IV q24h or 300  mg 
orally q8h≥6 wk
and gentamicin 3 mg/kg IV q24h or 1  mg/kg 
IM q8h2 wk
aAmerican Heart Association.
bRifampin plays a special role in prosthetic device infection because it helps kill bacteria attached to foreign material. Rifampin should never be used alone because it selects 
for resistance at a high frequency (about 10−6).
Modified from Que YA, Moreillon P . Infective endocarditis. Nat Rev Cardiol . 2011;6:322–336; and Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et  al. Infective endocarditis: 
diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and management of complications: a statement for healthcare professionals from the Committee on Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and 
Kawasaki Disease, Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young, and the Councils on Clinical Cardiology, Stroke, and Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, American Heart Association: endorsed by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Circulation. 2015;132:1435–1486.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2424Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
treatment of S. aureus nasal carriage. Moderate and severe SSI should 
be treated with systemic antibiotic. A decision to hospitalize a patient is made based on clinical judgment (large abscesses, signs of systemic infection) and the at-risk characteristics of the patients (age <6 months, 
diabetes, or immunodeficiency). Surgical drainage is a major part of treatment, and most benign SSTIs are cured with drainage alone.
184
Empirical therapy of health care–associated SSTI should cover 
multiresistant HCA-MRSA and thus include vancomycin or maybe linezolid. Empirical therapy of community-acquired SSTI is complicated by the occurrence of CA-MRSA. β-Lactams should be used with caution 
and according to the local epidemiology. Unlike HCA-MRSA, CA-MRSA is often susceptible to clindamycin and TMP-SMX, sometimes to tet -
racyclines, and mostly to linezolid. However, if coinfection with S. 
pyogenes is found and antibiotics are required, linezolid, vancomycin, or maybe tigecyclin should be considered for first-line treatment. If toxin secretion is an issue, linezolid might be preferred.
481
Bloodstream Infection
BSI is defined as one or several positive blood cultures associated with general symptoms such as fever or hypotension.
482 Its incidence rate 
increased from 7.4 episodes per 1000 admissions in the 1950s483 to 31.2 
episodes per 1000 admissions in 2006.484 Population-based studies have 
estimated the rate of BSI to be around 140 to 160 BSIs per 100,000 inhabitants/year in high-income countries.
432 The most common isolates 
are E. coli and S. aureus, with incidence rates estimated at 30 to 50 per 
100,000 inhabitants/year and 20 to 35 per 100,000 inhabitants/year, respectively.
432,485 Higher incidence rates of S. aureus  BSI are observed in 
countries with a greater burden of MRSA, in men, or at either extreme of life ( <1 year and >75 years). Mortality of S. aureus  BSI (15%–25%) has 
stabilized since the 1990s and varies as a function of age and underlying conditions.
414 Despite the increased prevalence of SSTI from CA-MRSA 
in outpatients in the United States, a parallel increase in CA-MRSA bacteremia or endocarditis has not been reported.
485 Studies have sug-
gested that PVL-positive strains are more likely to infect skin and soft  tissues (see previous section).
BSI is usually divided into two categories: nosocomial BSI, wherein 
positive blood cultures occur 2 days or more after hospital entry; and community-acquired BSI, which occurs in the community or before 2 days of hospitalization. However, the increasing number of individuals treated in outpatient programs makes these two categories progressively overlapping. Hence, community-acquired BSI may be more appropriately referred to as community-onset BSI, which is further subdivided into 
health care–associated BSI  (HCA-BSI) and community-associated BSI 
(CA-BSI). The subdivision is similar to that made between HCA-MRSA and CA-MRSA.
Community-Onset Bacteremia
Community-onset HCA-BSI is comparable with nosocomial BSI in terms of risk factors of multiresistant organisms. These include intravenous devices, a history of surgical treatment, and dialysis. In contrast, community-onset CA-BSI, which occurs in patients without underlying conditions, is mostly from antibiotic-susceptible organisms and always associated with a detectable infected focus, including SSTI, deep-seated abscesses, pneumonia, osteoarticular infections, or infective endocarditis.
486 
Of note, patients on dialysis are at particularly high risk for staphylococcal endocarditis and represent a distinct at-risk group for this disease.
426,487
Nosocomial and Health Care–Associated 
Bloodstream Infection
S. aureus  is the leading cause of nosocomial BSI and HCA-BSI, together 
with CoNS.409,410 These are mostly associated with the presence of 
intravascular catheters or devices, procedures in contaminated sites, 
SSI, and sometimes S. aureus pneumonia.409 Complications involve 
peripheral metastatic foci, which can reveal themselves later. Nosocomial S. aureus bacteremia enters in the differential diagnosis of any hospital-related febrile or septic episodes. The risk for patients with catheter-induced S. aureus bacteremia to develop infective endocarditis is about 
10%.
280,488 Thus, catheter-related S. aureus bacteremia must be taken 
very seriously and consideration given to excluding infective endocarditis with transesophageal echocardiography.
489–491should be started with parenteral antibiotics covering at least both staphylococci and streptococci.
In patients with underlying conditions, such as diabetic foot, mixed 
pictures of erysipelas and cellulitis may occur and may also be the result of gram-negative bacteria, including P . aeruginosa.  Therefore the spectrum 
of empirical treatment should be broadened to cover these agents until the microbiologic results are available. If gram-negative bacteria or MRSA is suspected, the addition of aminoglycoside or vancomycin to a broad-spectrum β-lactam may be warranted.
Cellulitis involves deeper anatomic structures and does not produce 
the typical geographic skin lesion of erysipelas (see Fig. 194.16). Therefore it is more confusing and may be mistaken for nonspecific lesions such as trauma. Associated pain and fever are important signs. Cellulitis may be from multiple other organisms, including gram-negative bacteria, especially in patients with immunocompromise. Therefore, microbiologic sampling (including blood cultures) should be promptly followed by broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy with both anti–gram-positive and anti–gram-negative coverage. Radiologic examination is unnecessary in most cases of cellulitis. Computed tomography (CT) is useful when subjacent osteomyelitis is suspected, whereas magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) helps to differentiate cellulitis from necrotizing fasciitis and osteomyelitis from adjacent soft tissue infection.
Necrotizing fasciitis is the most severe condition and paradoxically 
causes the least superficial signs at visual observation of the skin and soft tissues. The pain may be so intense that opiate administration is required for relief. The condition is often the result of S. pyogenes, but 
S. aureus may be involved, especially in the presence of CA-MRSA.
254 
Gram-negative bacteria, including P . aeruginosa, may be responsible, 
especially in patients with immunocompromise, and must be considered in the choice of initial empirical treatment.
Whatever its cause, fasciitis is an absolute emergency that necessitates 
immediate and generous surgical débridement and drainage. The evolu -
tion is a matter of minutes rather than hours and may rapidly result in amputation or death. Prompt clinical diagnosis and multidisciplinary evaluation are warranted. Imaging may help delineate the lesions, but urgent surgical exploration and fasciotomy should not be delayed. High-dose and broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is necessary and can be readjusted after the bacterial pathogen has been isolated. In the case of S. pyogenes and severe refractory shock, compassionate use of 
intravenous immunoglobulins has been proposed
186 (see also “ Non -
menstrual Toxic Shock Syndrome ” earlier).
Management of Skin and Soft  
Tissue Infection
Localized lesions can be handled with disinfectant or topical antibiotics such as fusidic acid. However, increasing rates of resistance to topical agents have been reported. Mupirocin should be reserved for the 
FIG. 194.16  Staphylococcus aureus  cellulitis of the elbow in cancer 
patient with low neutrophil counts. Pain was disproportional to visual 
appearance of the lesion. Patient was bacteremic. 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2425Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)damaged endothelia are covered by a meshwork of fibrin, platelets, and 
numerous host matrix proteins.501
S. aureus is extremely well equipped with both surface-bound and 
secreted factors that mediate tissue colonization and invasion (see Table  
194.3 and “ The Journey to Invasive Disease ” earlier). With a system 
developed in Lactococcus lactis,502 Que and colleagues81,503 showed that 
S. aureus  ClfA was necessary and sufficient for early valve colonization 
and infection in rats with experimental infective endocarditis but not sufficient for invasive and persistent disease. The same authors showed that fibronectin-binding protein A (FnBPA) promoted both early valve colonization and persistent infection. FnBPA is a peculiar MSCRAMM that carries at least three binding specificities, to fibronectin, to fibrinogen, and to elastin.
504 Construction of truncated and chimera proteins 
indicated that although fibrinogen binding was necessary and sufficient for early valve colonization, as observed with ClfA, fibronectin binding was necessary for further invasion and persistence. This invasive phenotype was associated with the capacity of fibronectin binding to trigger active internalization of staphylococci into eukaryotic cells, both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, valve infection proceeds through consecutive binding to fibrinogen, for early colonization, and fibronectin, for invasion and persistence.
81 Such interadhesin cooperation could also occur between 
other MSCRAMMs, adding even more flexibility to the already wealthy set of S. aureus surface determinants.
81,82
In the case of physically intact but inflamed endothelia, S. aureus 
fibronectin-binding proteins might be of primary importance. During inflammation, endothelial cells express integrins of the β
1 family, which 
can bind plasma fibronectin at the luminal pole of the cell. The resulting fibronectin coat functions as a ligand surface for circulating S. aureus that expresses fibronectin-binding proteins. The contact between the adhesin and its ligand triggers the active internalization of S. aureus  by 
endothelial cells and by other cells.
505 Once internalized, S. aureus  may 
either persist locally, protected from host defenses and antimicrobial therapy, or multiply and secrete hemolysins (see Tables 194.1 and 194.3), which lyse the host cell and allow bacteria to spread both locally and to distant organs. This second scenario probably explains many cases of infective endocarditis on anatomically normal valves.
Role of Platelets
The role of coagulation is critical in funneling circulating S. aureus 
clumps toward damaged endothelia (see “ Contribution of Coagulation ” 
earlier). However, bacteria-induced platelet activation is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, platelets contribute to the formation of the vegetation. On the other hand, platelets also contribute to antiinfective host defenses by releasing AMPs and inflammatory mediators. These cationic AMPs are contained in the α-granules of thrombocytes and 
are released into the surroundings by activated platelets. They kill numerous gram-positive organisms by perturbing their membrane potential.
506,507
Experimental evidence indicates that platelet-resistant mutants 
of staphylococci or streptococci have an increased ability to produce endocarditis in animals. In addition, clinical studies have indicated that isolates of S. aureus recovered from patients with endocarditis are 
more often resistant to platelet-induced killing than S. aureus isolated 
from other infected sites.
508 Resistance of S. aureus  to AMPs is mediated 
by the dlt  and mrp  operons (see “ Immune Evasion ” section earlier). 
Additional resistance strategies include binding and inactivation of AMPs by staphylococcal proteases such as Sak and Aur (see Table 194.1).
507,509
Experiments have confirmed that fibrinogen adherence and platelet 
aggregation cooperated to induce experimental en docarditis in rats.510 In 
addition, interaction with vWF is also involved.120 Finally, retrospective 
studies suggested that patients on prior aspirin therapy were significantly less likely to have vegetations on cardiovascular implantable electronic device leads or heart valves than those who had not received it,
511 yet 
without any impact on survival511 or embolism.512,513
This raises the question regarding whether antiaggregant therapy 
might be useful in the prevention or treatment of infective endocarditis. Experimental antiaggregant prophylaxis is therefore being revisited in experimental models and has generated promising results.
121 Likewise, 
antiaggregant therapy with acetosalicylic acid decreases the severity of experimental endocarditis from S. aureus.
514Management of Staphylococcus aureus 
Bloodstream Infection
With S. aureus, even a single positive blood culture should prompt 
initiation of antibiotic therapy, sampling of blood for follow-up cultures, 
determination of the source and extent of infection, and finally search for endocarditis with transesophageal echocardiography.
490 Approximately 
one-third of patients with S. aureus  BSI develop metastatic complications, 
especially in cases involving prosthetic material. The strongest indicators of clinical complication are a positive result of follow-up blood culture after 48 to 96 hours of treatment and persistent fever at 72 hours.
492
Removal of the original focus is a golden rule, especially in the case 
of infected intravascular material or prosthetic devices. Failure to do so is strongly associated with recurrence. In the case of difficult-to-remove implanted catheters, the use of antibiotic locks between infusions may be attempted, but success is variable.
493 In case of a removable infection 
source (e.g., a catheter), a 10-day to 14-day post–catheter removal antibiotic treatment may be appropriate: (1) after the removal of all prosthetic material and endovascular catheter; (2) after the exclusion of endocarditis; (3) as long as the follow-up blood cultures drawn 2 to 4 days after initial positive cultures are negative for S. aureus; (4) if the fever has vanished 
within 72 hours after the initiation of antistaphylococcal therapy; and (5) when the absence of metastatic foci has been confirmed.
493,494
Although no consensus recommendations exist regarding therapy, 
most authorities advocate a 14-day course of antibiotic treatment in case of BSI related to a removable catheter or drainable localized infec -
tion.
495 Deeper infections, such as arthritis, osteomyelitis, and endo -
carditis, must be treated with antibiotics for 4 to 6 weeks, with or without surgery depending on individual circumstances (see Chapters 80, 81, 103, 104, and 105 for more detailed recommendations). Empirical antibiotic treatment must take into account the probability of methicillin-resistant staphylococci, which may represent more than 50% of staphy -
lococcal infections in the hospital milieu.
490
Infective Endocarditis
Infective endocarditis is one the most severe complications of S. aureus  
bacteremia. The disease is uniformly lethal if not treated with antibiotics with or without surgery. S. aureus endocarditis typically follows an 
acute course with multiple peripheral septic emboli, valve destruction, myocarditis, and mixed cardiogenic and septic shock. Appropriate care involves a multidisciplinary evaluation, including infectious disease and microbiology experts, cardiologists, intensive care specialists, cardiac surgeons, and sometimes neurologists.
489,491
Epidemiology
In spite of improved health care, the overall incidence rate of infective endocarditis has remained at 2 to 8 cases per 100,000 population per year over the last 40 years.
426–428,496 Risk factors have, however, been 
changing. Chronic rheumatic heart disease, which was a prime risk factor in the preantibiotic era, is being replaced by other at-risk groups, including patients with age-related degenerative valve lesions, prosthetic valves,
497 intracardiac devices, or intravascular prostheses. Coexisting 
conditions such as hemodialysis,498 diabetes, intravenous drug use, or 
HIV infection increase the risk for infective endocarditis.487
As a consequence, the epidemiology of infective endocarditis has 
changed; the mean age of patients with infective endocarditis has increased from 30 years in the 1950s to older than 60 years since the 1990s. The incidence of infective endocarditis is now highest in men aged 75 to 79 years.
427 Oral streptococci, which are still a leading cause 
in developing countries, have been supplanted by S. aureus and CoNS, 
especially in industrialized countries.422,427,499,500 This finding also correlates 
with the fact that the portal of entry has become more often cutaneous or procedure related than dental. Accordingly, patients with health care–associated infective endocarditis may represent up to one-fourth to one-third of all cases of infective endocarditis in recent studies.
427,499
Pathogenesis
Role of Bacterial Adhesins
The pathogenesis of S. aureus  endocarditis implicates a close relationship 
between certain S. aureus surface adhesins (MSCRAMMs) and host 
proteins present on the surface of damaged or inflamed valves. Physically 
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2426Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
from septic embolization of the vasa vasorum, or from the deposition 
of immune complexes that trigger local inflammation and weakening of the arterial wall.
Neurologic Complications
Cerebral complications are frequent, occurring in 15% to 25% of patients
517,519 and are associated with poor outcome.520 Systematic brain 
imaging with MRI may reveal cerebral events in up to 80% of patients; among them, 50% are asymptomatic.
521 Lesions include ischemic and 
hemorrhagic stroke, transient ischemic attacks, silent cerebral embolism, One randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial showed that 
a daily dose of aspirin (325  mg orall y q24h) in addition to the conven -
tional antibiotic therapy did not reduce the risk of embolic events in patients with infective endocarditis and was even associated with an increased risk of bleeding.
515 Similarly, anticoagulants increased the risk 
of secondary bleeding at the site of septic emboli, including hemorrhagic stroke, and are not recommended.
516,517 However, these studies did not 
look at endocarditis prevention sensu stricto, because the studied patients had already developed valve infection and thus were more prone to have secondary bleeding. A more realistic protocol should include patients who are at risk of endocarditis and are taking or not taking prophylactic antiaggregants, and test whether or not they have a modified risk of contracting endocarditis.
Host Defenses and Prevention
The role of host defenses is marginal in infective endocarditis. Once staphylococci have colonized the valves, their intrinsic procoagulant activities (e.g., fibrinogen polymerization by coagulase and platelet activation by fibrinogen-binding protein) trigger further deposition of platelets and fibrin on top of the microorganisms, thus providing a protective niche inside the vegetation. Moreover, S. aureus  can be internal -
ized into endothelial cells via bridging with fibronectin (see previous discussion). Both cases result in a failure of professional phagocytes to eradicate the organisms (see also “ Immune Evasion ” earlier).
Killing by T-cell–mediated effectors is not operative in endocarditis. 
Therefore, the only alternative is antibody-mediated protection, which could act before colonization by blocking S. aureus surface adhesins or 
by increasing the speed of blood clearance via opsonization. Active research is dedicated to such an approach, but few promising results are available yet. The limitation of preventive vaccines in endocarditis might be the short (1-minute to 2-minute) delay between blood invasion and valve colonization, which leaves a small window for antibodies to be active.
Other preventive measures are scarce. Because S. aureus  is a ubiquitous 
skin colonizer, prevention starts with hygiene and disinfection. Decon -
tamination of carriers and proper antisepsis at the site of injection and catheter placement is mandatory. Antibiotic prophylaxis may be useful but is limited to cases of medicosurgical procedures in the area of well-defined infective foci (see Chapter 83 for details). Thus, detection of patients with risk factors, and respect for proper hygiene and antisepsis measures, remain the cornerstones of S. aureus  endocarditis prevention.
Clinical Spectrum
S. aureus infective endocarditis often manifests as an acute septic syndrome with fever, tachycardia, and often hypotension. Dyspnea may be present from congestive heart and from septic pulmonary emboli in the case of right-sided endocarditis. General signs such as arthralgia or myalgia, back pain, and pleuritic pain are present in 10% to 50% of cases. Specific signs include a new cardiac murmur, usually of valve regurgitation, in about 90% of cases; septic emboli in the form of petechiae and Janeway lesions; and central nervous system manifestations in up to one-third of patients (Figs. 194.17, 194.18, and 194.19).
Cardiac failure is a major indication for emergency valve replacement. 
A defect in atrioventricular conduction may represent a mycotic aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva, usually the noncoronary cusp. Transesophageal echocardiography is useful in detecting this complication. Large vegetations (≥
1 cm) are relatively frequent in S. aureus endocarditis and have been 
associated with an increased risk of embolization. However, the risk of embolization rapidly decreases within the first days of efficacious therapy.
518
Vascular Complications
Embolic skin lesions encompass Janeway spots, occurring in acute endocarditis and often containing bacteria (see Fig. 194.17), or more 
delayed immune-related vasculitis (Roth spots) that are a sign of relatively chronic infection and are not a usual feature of acute S. aureus endo-
carditis. Larger septic emboli from broken-off vegetations can occlude the coronary or peripheral arteries, especially in the brain. Mycotic aneurysms are found in up to 15% of patients with bacterial endocarditis, and probably more frequently in S. aureus endocarditis. They may arise 
either from direct invasion of the arterial wall by the infecting organisms, 
FIG. 194.17  Embolic skin lesions (Janeway spots) in framework 
of acute mitral valve endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus.  
FIG. 194.18  Staphylococcus aureus  endocarditis of the mitral valve.  
Note large ulcerovegetative lesion on anterior leaflet. (Courtesy Drs. A. 
Lobrinus and I. Letovanec, Pathology Institute, Lausanne University.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2427Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)Daptomycin is an alternative for S. aureus  right-sided infective endocarditis 
therapy (see Chapter 31).236 However high doses (10  mg/kg/24  h) should  
be used, and combination with oxacillin or fosfomycin to avoid the 
development of resistance has been suggested (see “ Daptomycin ” section 
earlier). On the other hand, glycopeptides (vancomycin or teicoplanin) should not be used for short-course treatment because of their lack of bactericidal activity and poor vegetation penetration.
Infections of the Central  
Nervous System
Meningitis
S. aureus meningitis is an uncommon disease that accounts for about 
5% of cases of bacterial meningitis.528 Two different modes of patho-
genesis have been described: (1) postoperative meningitis, associated with neurosurgical procedures, shunt devices, or head trauma; and (2) hematogenous meningitis, sometimes in the context of infective endocarditis.
529
Postoperative and spontaneous S. aureus  meningitis are two different 
clinical syndromes. Postoperative meningitis  usually appears as hospital-
acquired infection in young people, and most cases are associated with ventricular shunt devices,
530 recent neurosurgery, or cerebrospinal fluid 
leak. On the other hand, spontaneous meningitis  is a community-acquired 
infection associated with a variety of clinical sources (primary bacteremia, infective endocarditis, osteomyelitis) that mainly affects older patients with severe underlying conditions.
529 The mortality rate associated with 
S. aureus  meningitis is high, around 50%; the mortality rate of spontane -
ous meningitis is usually higher than that of postoperative meningitis.530–532
Spinal Epidural Abscess
Spinal epidural abscess is a rare infection of the central nervous system, usually occurring after operation or trauma, that can be associated with damage to the spinal cord and nerve roots. S. aureus is the leading bacterial 
pathogen causing spinal epidural abscess, accounting for about two-thirds of cases. Classically, patients have back pain, fever, and neurologic signs.
533 
In general, surgical decompression and a long course of intravenous antibiotics are required in order to achieve a successful outcome.
Pulmonary Infections
Epidemiology
S. aureus is responsible for 2% to 5% of CAP for which hospitalization 
is required,534,535 but for 20% to 30% of hospital-acquired pneumonia 
(HAP).409 The prevalence of S. aureus  CAP varies widely by country and 
continent.536 Although S. aureus CAP cases may cluster with influenza 
cases, S. aureus  CAP occurs year round. In recent studies, patients with S. 
aureus  CAP had similar demographic characteristics, comorbidities, and 
presenting signs and symptoms compared with those with non– S. aureus  
CAP .534 Mortality is high (10%–15%) compared with pneumococcal 
CAP (about 5%),534 and is often associated with a more severe course.535
In the hospital, S. aureus  is becoming the pathogen most frequently 
responsible for nosocomial pneumonia. Its frequency increased from 13% of the cases between 1981 and 1986 to 25% between 2011 and 2014,
409 
with a proportion of MRSA that peaked at 55% during the last decade.
Clinical Spectrum
The clinical manifestations of S. aureus pneumonia are frequently 
indistinguishable from those of pneumonia caused by other pathogens,534 
although the pneumonia caused by S. aureus is typically a necrotizing 
infection with rapid progression to tissue destruction and cavitation. The infection may result either from airborne contamination or aspiration or from hematogenous seeding during bacteremia or right-sided endocarditis. In both cases, the pulmonary infection can lead to local complications, such as abscesses and pleural empyema.
Pneumonia in young, previously healthy adults with a preceding 
influenza-like illness characterized by severe respiratory symptoms, hemoptysis, high fever, leukopenia, very high C-reactive protein level (>
400 mg/L), hypotension, and a chest radiograph that shows multilobar 
cavitating alveolar infiltrates should lead one to suspect CA-MRSA infection.
411 The fatality rate of CA-MRSA necrotizing pneumonia can 
be as high as 60%.537 Airway bleeding, erythroderma, and leukopenia 
are strong predictors of mortality.537 Fig. 194.8 illustrates a case of acute abscesses, mycotic aneurysms, encephalopathy, and meningitis.517,519,521 
Control of the infection is essential because embolization sharply decreases thereafter.
518 Patients with large mobile mitral vegetations are 
at higher risk of embolism.517 Recurrent embolization after the onset 
of efficacious therapy may be an indication for urgent valve replacement. This decision is difficult because anticoagulation therapy during extracorporeal circulation and after valve replacement puts the patients at increased risk of secondary intracerebral hemorrhage.
489,517 However, 
recent studies have indicated that early surgery (i.e., within the hospital stay) is usually beneficial.
522
Diagnosis
Criteria for the diagnosis of infective endocarditis changed with the use of echocardiography and are discussed in detail in Chapter 80. In S. 
aureus  endocarditis, the first two blood cultures are positive in more 
than 90% of cases. The volume of blood cultures is critical because persistent bacteremia in infective endocarditis is often of low level, representing 1 
to 100 bacteria per milliliter of blood. For each culture, 8 to 12  mL of 
blood should be drawn, with careful antiseptic precautions.
Management of Staphylococcus aureus 
Endocarditis
Treatment options are listed in Table 194.10489,491 (see Chapters 80 and 
81).
Management of Right-Sided Endocarditis in Injection Drug Users
S. aureus  is the most common, yet not unique, pathogen in right-sided 
endocarditis in intravenous drug users.523 Although standard treatment 
of left-sided S. aureus endocarditis requires 4 to 6 weeks of antibiotic 
therapy (see Table 194.10 and Chapter 80), the duration of treatment for right-sided endocarditis can be considerably shortened in injection drug users
489,491,524,525 because right-sided endocarditis has somewhat 
different physiopathologic features and is easier to cure or can heal spontaneously in experimental models. Moreover, the prognosis is less severe than in left-sided valve infection. Agents proven appropriate for 2-week treatment of right-sided endocarditis are nafcillin and oxacillin. Combination with an aminoglycoside was shown to be not necessary.
524,525 
However, short-course therapy is limited to favorable conditions, including infection with an MSSA, prompt response to treatment, infection limited to the tricuspid valve, <20-mm vegetations, absence 
of extracardiac infected sites such as empyema, and absence of severe immunodepression ( >200 CD4 cells/mL) in HIV-infected patients.
489,491,524
Another proposed regimen that may allow intravenous-oral switch 
therapy is ciprofloxacin plus rifampin.526,527 Today newer anti–gram-positive 
quinolones (e.g., levofloxacin or moxifloxacin) should be preferred to ciprofloxacin, because they are less prone to select for resistance. Some authors do not start rifampin until 3 days of effective therapy have been given, hoping to reduce the chance of secondary rifampin resistance. 
FIG. 194.19  Chest computed tomography scan of 30-year-old 
intravenous drug user with tricuspid valve Staphylococcus aureus 
endocarditis and bilateral lung abscesses and empyema.  
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2428Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
The mortality of osteomyelitis has markedly decreased since the 
introduction of antibacterial therapy. In one pediatric case review, the 
mortality rate decreased from more than 30% before the introduction of sulfa derivatives (years 1936 through 1940) to approximately 13% afterward (from 1941 to 1945).
545 The mortality rate from osteomyelitis 
continued to decline with modern antibiotics and is now stabilizing at around 5%.
546
The reported incidence of osteomyelitis has risen from around 3 
cases per 100,000 population per year in 1997547 to 24.4 cases per 100,000 
population per year in recent population-based studies.542 Whereas the 
incidence of osteomyelitis is increasing in adults, it has been declining in children younger than 13 years; in the area of the Greater Glasgow Board Health Center (United Kingdom), the incidence rate of osteo -
myelitis declined by about three times over the last 30 years and by two times during the 1990s.
547 Some studies reported, however, an increased 
incidence in children related to CA-MRSA.548
The incidence of osteomyelitis varies with age and the presence of 
underlying risk factors such as male sex (men are affected twice as often as women) or diabetes. Other risk factors include individuals with an increased risk of bacteremia, such as patients undergoing hemodialysis or intravenous drug users, and immunosuppression.
Pathogenesis
Lew and Waldvogel differentiated three different groups of osteomyelitis etiologies: (1) hematogenous osteomyelitis occurring mostly in children; (2) osteomyelitis due to local spread from a contiguous source after trauma or surgery; and (3) secondary osteomyelitis in patients with vascular insufficiency or concomitant neuropathy, with most of the cases following a foot soft tissue infection.
549 Some authors propose 
the addition of a fourth etiologic group of osteomyelitis occurring in special hosts with an increased risk for bone infection, including intravenous drug users, individuals with sickle cell anemia, and patients with Gaucher disease.
Healthy bone is generally highly resistant to infection. The two ways 
by which bacteria can infect the bones are: 1, hematogenous seeding; and 2, contiguous contamination. Both have epidemiologic and patho -
genic correlates. Bone infection requires certain predisposing circum -
stances. In children with hematogenous osteomyelitis, the disease is usually located at the distal end of the long bone metaphysis, including the humerus, femur, and tibia.
548 The nature of the blood flow close to 
the growing plate may be responsible. Terminal arterioles followed by stagnant blood in the venous sinusoids may facilitate the settlement of hemorrhagic pneumonia from PVL toxin–secreting S. aureus  associated 
with influenza A infection in a 20-year-old patient (see “ Killing Leu-
kocytes ” section earlier).
S. aureus remains a common cause of pleural empyema and accounts 
for about one-fifth of the cases.
538 Acute empyema usually arises by 
means of direct extension from S. aureus pneumonia or lung abscess. 
It is also often seen as a complication of thoracic surgery. Radiologic findings on CT scan or ultrasound scan confirm the clinical suspicion. Demonstration of a pleural air-fluid level in the absence of a previous thoracocentesis suggests a bronchopleural fistula, another feared complication of S. aureus infection. Fig. 194.19 illustrates the case of multiple lung abscesses and pleural effusion in a young patient with right-sided endocarditis.
Therapy
Rapid institution of appropriate antibiotic therapy is essential. Delay is associated with poor outcome. Because the rapid determination of the etiology of severe pneumonia is possible only in a limited number of cases, initial broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy that treats MRSA and other nosocomial pathogens should be instituted early in the cases of health care–associated pneumonia. However, deescalation therapy should occur whenever possible; in particular, a switch to a more rapidly bactericidal β-lactam agent should be done whenever possible according 
to susceptibility testing. Because of the low prevalence of MRSA in CAP ,
534,536 routine empirical anti-MRSA antibiotics are not recommended 
in the initial treatment of CAP .539
For years, vancomycin was the only treatment for MRSA pneumonia, 
but the cure rate was disappointing. This led to the recommendation to increase trough concentrations of vancomycin in the serum to 
15–20  µg/mL for severe infections. Linezolid is an alternative to van -
comycin for the treatment of MRSA pneumonia. Clinical outcomes of S. aureus HAP and V AP treated with linezolid therapy were found to be significantly better than in those treated with vancomycin in retrospec -
tive subgroups analysis. However, these results were not confirmed in a randomized trial. Thus it is still unclear whether one drug is better than the other. For patients with pneumonia caused by MRSA strains 
with vancomycin MICs of 1.0  mg/mL or mor e who require concomitant 
nephrotoxic therapy or who have preexisting renal failure, linezolid 
(600  mg IV , q12h, with possible later switch to oral therapy) is advised.540
The duration of treatment of S. aureus pneumonia is determined 
by the general picture of the disease. The less complicated cases of CAP without overt tissue destruction and without associated deep-seated infections respond to appropriate antibiotic therapy in 10 to 15 days. With the exception of MRSA pneumonia, 7 to 8 days of treatment is sufficient for most patients with HAP or V AP without bacteremia. In the case of surgical drainage of empyema, the treatment duration is adjusted according to cultures and persistence of the pleural effusion. In the case of right-sided endocarditis, therapy is prolonged to 4 weeks according to standard recommendations for endocarditis treatment (see previous discussion).
Osteoarticular Infections
S. aureus  is the leading cause of bone and joint infections in both children 
and adults.541 The prevalence of those infections is increasing, mainly 
because of a longer life expectancy, the rise in chronic diseases such as diabetes mellitus, and the increasing use of bone fixation devices and prosthetic joints in the elderly.
542
Osteomyelitis
Epidemiology
Osteomyelitis has been described since antiquity. Its epidemiology has, 
however, dramatically changed over the last decades, in parallel with the increased use of medical devices in orthopedic surgery; the higher incidence of chronic disease, especially diabetes mellitus; and the emergence of resistant bacterial strains (e.g., MRSA and CA-MRSA).
543 
In parallel, immunization programs led to the disappearance of causative organisms such as Haemophilus influenzae,  and improved identification 
methods revealed new causative microorganisms (i.e., Kingella kingae ). 
Nevertheless, S. aureus continues to be the leading organism, isolated in 30% to 60% of cases (Table 194.11).
486,544TABLE 194.11  Frequency of Osteomyelitis Caused 
by Various Microorganisms
FREQUENCY OF OSTEOMYELITIS (%)
BLYTH 
ET AL.547TICE  
ET AL.557KREMERS ET AL.
542MURILLO ET AL.
543
Microorganisms
Staphylococcus 
aureus65 ND 44 59
Coagulase-negative 
staphylococci5 13.9 17 3
Non–group D 
streptococci30 13.7 16 17
Pseudomonas 
aeruginosaND 4.4 7 2
Other 0 13.8 16 19
Total 100 100 100 100
Demographics
No. of patients or 
episodes20 454 760 618
Age (yr; median) 0.1–12 
(5.4)6–92 (51) 52 +/- 25 53–77 (65)
ND, Not determined.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2429Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)antibacterial therapy is given, the nascent abscess can heal totally. 
Alternatively, bone remodeling and necrosis can extend and circumscribe devitalized bone fragments, or sequestra, floating in the abscess cavity (see Fig. 194.20B). The formation of necrosis and sequestra exemplifies the evolution of acute osteomyelitis to the chronic form (see subsequent discussion) and requires the combination of antibiotics and surgical débridement and sequestrectomy for successful treatment.
Clinical Features
Osteomyelitis can be classified according to pathogenesis, to localiza -
tion, to the presence of an implant, or to anatomy and comorbidity. It is conventionally divided into acute and chronic disease. Acute osteomyelitis is defined as a first episode that responds to medical treatment within 6 weeks. It is usually hematogenous and predominant in children and elderly patients. Symptoms are those of an acute septic syndrome with chills, high fever, malaise, and local pain and swelling. Blood cultures are positive in about 50% of cases, and blood or tissue cultures in 65% of cases.
Chronic osteomyelitis is considered in all other situations, including 
the relapse of previously treated or untreated disease and infection arising by contiguity. The process can evolve over months or even years and is characterized by low-grade inflammation, the presence of necrosis, sequestra, pus, fistula, and recurrences.
549
Aside from open-wound fractures, contiguous osteomyelitis involves 
diabetes-related and unrelated vascular diseases and prosthesis-related osteomyelitis. Diabetes-related osteomyelitis and vascular-related osteomyelitis principally involve the feet. They complicate chronic ulcers, which may be paradoxically painless because of associated neuritis. The ulcerative lesion should be explored gently, but in depth, with a surgical probe. If the probe encounters the bone surface, osteomyelitis is present.
553 
Other investigations involve radiology and surgical biopsy. Cultures of deep tissues and bone biopsy are mandatory for microbiologic diagnosis. Cultures of surface swabs and fistula fluids mostly yield skin contaminants but not the responsible pathogen.
Diagnosis
Diagnosis of osteomyelitis integrates clinical signs, radiology, and microbiology. However, clinical signs may be scarce in chronic infection. Imaging techniques are of primary importance, and dominated now by MRI because it is highly sensitive and provides information on both solid and soft tissues. Nuclear studies (bone scans) are performed only if metal hardware precludes MRI or CT.
Microbiologic cultures are indispensable to guide therapy. Whenever 
possible, both blood cultures and tissue biopsies should be performed. Important to note, chronic infection may be associated with persistent forms of S. aureus, such as SCVs (small colony variants), especially if aminoglycosides have been used in conjunction with osteosynthetic material (see earlier “ Culture and Identification ” section).
554 The diagnostic 
laboratory should be made aware of this possibility so appropriate measures may be taken.
Therapy
Rapid institution of antibiotic therapy is mandatory to prevent bone necrosis and the passage of acute osteomyelitis to more problematic chronic disease. The duration of drug treatment in most studies is 4 and 6 weeks but may vary up to 10 weeks or more in complicated situations. A trial suggested that 6 weeks of treatment is noninferior to 12 weeks.
430 
Empirical treatment of osteomyelitis should include adequate coverage of MRSA in areas where CA-MRSA is endemic. Adequate representative cultures should be obtained to ensure the early identification of MRSA.
The classic regimens are as follows: (1) for penicillin-susceptible 
S. aureus, intravenous penicillin G, 4 millions units IV q6h; (2) for penicillin-resistant S. aureus,  intravenous nafcillin, oxacillin, or, outside 
the United States, flucloxacillin, 2  g IV q6h; and (3) for MRSA , intrave -
nous vancomycin, 1  g IV q12h (follow ed a loading dose as proposed in 
“Therapeutic Monitoring of Vancomycin in Adult Patients ”). Clindamycin 
might be a good alternative to vancomycin in the presence of susceptible CA-MRSA (see Chapter 104).
In children with hematogenous S. aureus osteomyelitis, a relatively 
short course (4–7 days) of intravenous treatment is often followed by oral therapy. A series comparing 131 children showed equivalence blood-borne staphylococci. A similar model may apply for vertebral osteomyelitis (Fig. 194.20A), wherein blood flow at the vertebral interface is somewhat similar. In addition, microtrauma (or macrotrauma) to bone may facilitate infection by affecting the local blood supply or exposing host matrix proteins to which staphylococci can adhere.
On the bacterial side, S. aureus  is equipped with several surface adhesins 
or MSCRAMMs (see Tables 194.1 and 194.3, and “ The Journey to Invasive  
Disease ” earlier), including collagen-binding protein and sialoprotein-
binding protein, which were shown to promote experimental osteoarticular infection. After local settlement, secreted proteases, such as aureolysin, and toxins, such as alpha-type PSMs,
550 promote profound alteration in 
bone remodeling, tissue destruction, and invasion, as indicated by a decreased virulence of sae, sar, and agr  mutants that are affected in 
secretion of virulence factors.
551,552 The combined effect of both S. aureus  
factors and immune cell-mediated production of oxygen radicals and cytokines results in local necrosis and abscess formation. If adequate 
A
B
FIG. 194.20  Osteomyelitis.  (A) T1-weighted magnetic resonance image 
of L4-L5 lumbar osteomyelitis after injection of gadolinium contrast medium. 
(B) Chronic osteomyelitis of left tibia. A vast necrotic cavern containing sequestrum surrounded by air can be seen. A fistula with drainage to the skin is also present. (Courtesy Dr. U. Flückiger, Hirslanden Klinik, Aarau, 
Switzerland.)
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2430Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents
S. aureus  is mostly responsible for early infection.431 As for prosthetic 
heart valves, the organisms usually originate from the skin and are 
likely to be introduced at the time of operation. Although early symptoms may be acute, patients with low-grade or chronic infection may have few general symptoms, and the clinical signs may become centered around local pain and loosening of the prosthesis. Prosthetic joints remain susceptible to hematogenous seeding during their entire lifetime. The overall risk for prosthetic joint infection after S. aureus  bacteremia 
is high, ranging from 30% to 40%.
563,564
Blood culture results are often negative. Cultures of the fluid from 
the artificial joint are critical, preferably with broth culture, but can have negative results as well. Molecular diagnosis with PCR should be considered (see “ Culture and Identification ” earlier). If the prosthesis 
is surgically removed, multiple microbiologic samples should be taken at various sites of the prosthesis and bone cavity because bacteria may remain clustered in circumscribed areas.
Successful treatment combines surgical intervention and antibiotics. 
The suggested antibiotic duration is 3 months for hip prostheses and 6 months for knee prostheses. Intravenous therapy should be admin-istrated for the first 2 to 4 weeks.
431 The addition of rifampin to a 
conventional antistaphylococcal regimen appeared clearly useful in patients with prosthetic joint infections. Rifampin has an excellent activity on slow-growing and adherent staphylococci. In general, retention of the implant should not be attempted. Débridement with retention is an option only for patients with early postoperative or acute hema -
togenous infection, if duration of clinical signs and symptoms is less than 3 weeks, if the implant is stable, and if effective therapy against biofilm microorganisms is available. The prerequisites for one-stage exchange are satisfactory condition of soft tissue, the absence of severe coexisting illnesses, and the absence of difficult-to-treat bacteria. In all other cases, a two-stage exchange is preferred, with a 2-week to 4-week interval between procedures (see Chapter 105).
431,565
Pyomyositis
Primary pyomyositis, also called tropical myositis, infective myositis, pyogenic myositis, and myositis purulenta tropica, is a rare subacute purulent infection of skeletal muscles. It does not follow contiguous contamination and is most probably of hematogenous origin. The rarity of the disease is attributed to the resistance of muscles to infection. A history of muscle trauma is often reported.
Pyomyositis is frequently seen in Africa and the South Pacific, but 
it is rare in the Northern Hemisphere. Hence, it could be related to particular local conditions or bacterial properties. In a review of 676 cases, the disease occurred in all age groups. However, it was about twice as frequent in children and adults younger than 30 years than in older adults, and males were predominantly affected.
566 Any muscle 
may be involved, but the quadriceps and iliopsoas muscles were most often implicated, in 26% and 14%, respectively. S. aureus was the etiologic 
agent in about 80% of cases. In a series from the Amazon Basin of Peru, 11 of 12 patients carried the Panton-Valentine toxin suggesting that PVL might be involved (see “ Killing Leukocytes ” section earlier).
567
Clinical symptoms evolve in three stages. They first start with the 
insidious onset of dull cramping and low-grade fever, general malaise, and muscle aches. Because only the aponeurosis is innervated, overt muscle pain may be delayed for 1 or 2 weeks, before frank abscess forma -
tion. Second, the formation of muscle abscess becomes symptomatic, with pain, muscle swelling, tenderness, and sepsis. Most patients are seen at this stage. If left untreated, the disease evolves into the third stage, with muscle destruction, local extension with osteomyelitis, or osteoarthritis, septicemia, and distant dissemination. Diagnosis involves radiographic imaging (CT and MRI) and bacteriologic diag -
nosis with blood cultures and muscle puncture. Treatment is essentially based on antibiotic therapy. Treatment duration is a matter of debate. Parenteral treatment is often recommended for 7 to 14 days, followed by oral treatment for up to 6 weeks. The prognosis before stage 3 is  
usually excellent.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by Swiss National Science Foundation grants CR31I3_166124 and 320030_176216 (to YA Que) and 310030_143650 (to P . Moreillon) on staphylococcal disease and new phage therapy.between short (total of 20 days) and long (total of 30 days) treatment durations.
555 Intravenous treatment (median 3.7 days) was followed 
by oral amoxicillin, first-generation cephalosporin, or clindamycin for the remaining period. Oral treatment is currently not recommended in adults, although newer quinolones may be appropriate because of their high bioavailability. However, outpatient therapy is also increasingly 
used. Although controversial, some workers use ceftriaxone (2  g once 
a day), which was shown to be effective against S. aureus osteomyelitis 
in two studies.556,557
Finally, osteomyelitis from multiresistant MRSA remains difficult 
to treat. Although vancomycin is still recommended as first-line therapy, daptomycin and linezolid are good alternatives.
558
Native Joint Septic Arthritis
Septic arthritis is a disease that usually arises in elderly people and very young children.
546,559 S. aureus remains the most frequent cause of septic 
arthritis in both children and adults.429,543 Previous joint pathology (e.g., 
rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, crystal arthropathy) and diabetes are risk factors. The disease may follow both hematogenous seeding and local trauma and may be of iatrogenic nature in the case of joint puncture or arthroscopy. Postarthroscopic septic arthritis has a prevalence of around 14 cases per 10,000 procedures.
560 Symptoms associated are 
acute pain and joint swelling. Joint destruction occurs within a few days from both bacterial and host inflammatory factors and probably also ischemic lesions from the increased intraarticular hydrostatic pressure. Therefore, patients with underlying arthritis with acute pain in a single joint should undergo aspiration immediately; the fluid should be examined for cell count, chemistry, and gout crystals (if appropriate), and culture should be performed.
The prognosis of hematogenous arthritis in children is good. In 
adults, the mortality rate is around 11%
429 and the prognosis is mostly 
associated with that of the underlying disease (i.e., rheumatoid arthritis or endocarditis or other deep-seated condition responsible for the initial bacteremia). Medical treatment is identical to that of osteomyelitis. Open joint drainage is usually unnecessary, except for hip infections in children, where it may help prevent necrosis of the femoral head.
Septic Bursitis
Septic bursitis is an acute infection that involves the periarticular bursa. It is most often located in pressure areas such as the olecranon and the patella. It manifests as an acute juxtaarticular inflammation. The overlying skin is usually inflamed. Unlike arthritis and osteomyelitis, the underlying bone and joint are usually painless at pressure or mobilization. The portal of entry is likely to be local, such as spread from cellulitis. More than 80% of bursitis is the result of S. aureus.
561 Diagnosis is 
made with puncture and examination of the bursa fluid. Important to note, septic bursitis may be at the origin of both local and distant septic complication. Thus, careful clinical evaluation is mandatory. The prognosis is good but requires 2 to 3 weeks of appropriate antibiotic therapy. Repeated aspiration of the bursa is preferable to incision and drainage for patient with persistent swelling and pain. Patients with complicated cases may require hospitalization and intravenous treat -
ment. Surgical excision of the bursa may be considered in the case of recurrences, once inflammation has subsided.
Prosthetic Joint Infections
With the use of perioperative antimicrobial prophylaxis and laminar airflow operating rooms, prosthetic joint infections are fairly rare, with an estimated incidence rate of 1.5 infections per 1000 joint-years.
431 The 
infection rate after primary joint replacement is usually less than 1% in hip and shoulder prostheses, less than 2% in knee prostheses, and less than 9% in elbow prostheses.
562 Sixty percent to 70% of infections 
occur during the first 2 years after surgery. Infection rates after surgical revision are usually considerably higher.
Implant-associated infections are typically caused by microorganisms 
that grow in structures known as biofilms . S. aureus and CoNS are the 
main causative organisms.
431,562 Infections within the 12 first weeks after 
implantation are considered early, or acute; infections that occur from 12 weeks to 24 months after implantation are considered delayed, or low-grade, infections; and those that occur after 24 months are considered late, or chronic.
562
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
2431.e1
John E. Bennett, MD
July 1, 2020
MRSA bacteremia is associated with a mortality of greater than 20%, prompting 
interest in possibly improved outcomes with combination therapy. Adding a 
second antimicrobial to vancomycin or daptomycin has been studied with cef -
taroline, another β-lactam or rifampin, with no convincingly positive outcome for any of the combinations.
1,2 A randomized open trial, published in 2020, has 
provided some useful guidance by concluding that adding a week of flucloxacillin or cloxacillin to vancomycin therapy did not improve outcome of MRSA bacteremia.
3 
The primary endpoint at 90  days was a composite of mortality, persistent bacteremia 
at day 5, microbiologic relapse or microbiologic treatment failure. The study was done in 352 hospitalized adults in Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, and Israel. Daptomycin was used in 3.7% instead of vancomycin, which was dosed to trough levels of 15-20 mcg/ml. Cefazolin was permitted in patients hypersensitive to flu/cloxacillin or on hemodialysis. Among the secondary outcomes, bacteremia was shorter with the combination but acute kidney injury was more common. Enrollment was ended early because of nephrotoxicity in the combination group. There were not enough patients in subgroups, such as endocarditis, to permit meaningful analysis. At present, no combination therapy can be recommended for MRSA bacteremia.
References
1. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29249276/.
2. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31938716/.
3. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32044943/.Combination Therapy for MRSA BacteremiaUPDATE
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2431.e2
Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic AgentsReferences
1. Lowy FD. Staphylococcus aureus  infections. N Engl J Med . 
1998;339:520–532.
2. Spaulding AR, Salgado-Pabon W , Kohler PL, et  a l. 
Staphylococcal and streptococcal superantigen exotoxins. 
Clin Microbiol Rev. 2013;26:422–447.
3. Ladhani S, Joannou CL, Lochrie DP , et  a l. Clinical, 
microbial, and biochemical aspects of the exfoliative toxins causing staphylococcal scalded-skin syndrome. Clin Microbiol Rev. 1999;12:224–242.
4. Lamand V , Dauwalder O, Tristan A, et  a l. 
Epidemiological data of staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome in France from 1997 to 2007 and microbiological characteristics of Staphylococcus aureus  
associated strains. Clin Microbiol Infect . 
2012;18:E514–E521.
5.
 Brosnahan AJ, Schlievert PM. Gram-positive bacterial 
superantigen outside-in signaling causes toxic shock syndrome. FEBS J. 2011;278:4649–4667.
6. Jarraud S, Peyrat MA, Lim A, et  al . egc, a highly prevalent 
operon of enterotoxin gene, forms a putative nursery of superantigens in Staphylococcus aureus . J Immunol . 
2001;166:669–677.
7.
 Feng Y , Chen CJ, Su LH, et  a l. Evolution and 
pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus : lessons learned 
from genotyping and comparative genomics. FEMS 
Microbiol Rev . 2008;32:23–37.
8. Baba T, Takeuchi F , Kuroda M, et  a l. Genome and 
virulence determinants of high virulence community-acquired MRSA. Lancet . 2002;359:1819–1827.
9.
 Foster TJ. Immune evasion by staphylococci. Nat Rev 
Microbiol . 2005;3:948–958.
10. Lindsay J, Holden M. Understanding the rise of the 
superbug: investigation of the evolution and genomic variation of Staphylococcus aureus . Funct Integr Genomics. 
2006;6:186–201.
11. Gotz F , Bannerman T, Schleifer K-H. The genera 
Staphylococcus  and Macrococcus . In: Balows A, Truper 
AG, Dworkin M, et  al, eds. The Prokaryotes . Vol. 4. 3rd 
ed. New Y ork: Springer Science +Business Media; 
2006:1–75.
12. Kloos WE. The Prokaryotes. A Handbook on the Biology of 
Bacteria: Ecophysiology, Isolation, Identification, Applications . 2nd ed. New Y ork: Springer-Verlag; 1992.
13.
 Novick RP , Ram G. The floating (pathogenicity) island: a 
genomic dessert. Trends Genet . 2016;32:114–126.
14. Kuroda M, Ohta T, Uchiyama I, et  a l. Whole genome 
sequencing of meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . 
Lancet . 2001;357:1225–1240.
15. Ogston A. Micrococcus poisoning. J Anat Physiol. 
1883;17:24–58.
16. Takeuchi F , Watanabe S, Baba T, et  a l. Whole-genome 
sequencing of Staphylococcus haemolyticus  uncovers the 
extreme plasticity of its genome and the evolution of human-colonizing staphylococcal species. J Bacteriol . 
2005;187:7292–7308.
17. Kuroda M, Y amashita A, Hirakawa H, et  a l. Whole 
genome sequence of Staphylococcus saprophyticus  reveals 
the pathogenesis of uncomplicated urinary tract infection. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2005;102:13272–13277.
18. Gill SR, Fouts DE, Archer GL, et  a l. Insights on evolution 
of virulence and resistance from the complete genome analysis of an early methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  strain and a biofilm-producing methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis  strain. J Bacteriol . 
2005;187:2426–2438.
19. Borjesson S, Gomez-Sanz E, Ekstrom K, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus pseudintermedius  can be misdiagnosed as 
Staphylococcus aureus  in humans with dog bite wounds. 
Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 2015;34:839–844.
20. Kluytmans J, van Belkum A, Verbrugh H. Nasal carriage 
of Staphylococcus aureus : epidemiology, underlying 
mechanisms, and associated risks. Clin Microbiol Rev. 
1997;10:505–520.
21. Williams RE. Healthy carriage of Staphylococcus aureus : 
its prevalence and importance. Bacteriol Rev . 
1963;27:56–71.
22. Wertheim HF , Melles DC, Vos MC, et  a l. The role of 
nasal carriage in Staphylococcus aureus  infections. Lancet 
Infect Dis . 2005;5:751–762.
23. Senn L, Clerc O, Zanetti G, et  a l. The stealthy superbug: 
the role of asymptomatic enteric carriage in maintaining a long-term hospital outbreak of ST228 methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . MBio . 
2016;7:e02039-02015.
24.
 von Eiff C, Becker K, Machka K, et  a l. Nasal carriage as a 
source of Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. Study Group. 
N Engl J Med . 2001;344:11–16.
25. Dufour P , Gillet Y , Bes M, et  a l. Community-acquired 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  infections in 
France: emergence of a single clone that produces Panton-Valentine leukocidin. Clin Infect Dis. 
2002;35:819–824.
26. Bode LG, Kluytmans JA, Wertheim HF , et  a l. Preventing 
surgical-site infections in nasal carriers of Staphylococcus 
aureus . N Engl J Med . 2010;362:9–17.
27. Kuehnert MJ, Kruszon-Moran D, Hill HA, et  a l. 
Prevalence of Staphylococcus aureus  nasal colonization in 
the United States, 2001-2002. J Infect Dis . 
2006;193:172–179.
28. Compernolle V , Verschraegen G, Claeys G. Combined 
use of Pastorex Staph-Plus and either of two new chromogenic agars, MRSA ID and CHROMagar MRSA, for detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus . J Clin Microbiol. 2007;45:154–158.
29. Walsh TR, Bolmstrom A, Qwarnstrom A, et  a l. 
Evaluation of current methods for detection of staphylococci with reduced susceptibility to glycopeptides. J Clin Microbiol. 2001;39:2439–2444.
30.
 Proctor RA, Balwit JM, Vesga O. Variant subpopulations 
of Staphylococcus aureus  as cause of persistent and 
recurrent infections. Infect Agents Dis. 1994;3:302–312.
31. Wolter DJ, Emerson JC, McNamara S, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  small-colony variants are 
independently associated with worse lung disease in children with cystic fibrosis. Clin Infect Dis. 
2013;57:384–391.
32. Baumert N, von Eiff C, Schaaff F , et  a l. Physiology and 
antibiotic susceptibility of Staphylococcus aureus  small 
colony variants. Microb Drug Resist . 2002;8:253–260.
33. Edwards AM. Phenotype switching is a natural 
consequence of Staphylococcus aureus  replication. J 
Bacteriol . 2012;194:5404–5412.
34. Latimer J, Forbes S, McBain AJ. Attenuated virulence and 
biofilm formation in Staphylococcus aureus  following 
sublethal exposure to triclosan. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2012;56:3092–3100.
35. Chatterjee I, Kriegeskorte A, Fischer A, et  a l. In vivo 
mutations of thymidylate synthase (encoded by thyA) are responsible for thymidine dependency in clinical small-colony variants of Staphylococcus aureus . J 
Bacteriol . 2008;190:834–842.
36. Jonsson IM, von Eiff C, Proctor RA, et  a l. Virulence of a 
hemB mutant displaying the phenotype of a Staphylococcus aureus  small colony variant in a murine 
model of septic arthritis. Microb Pathog. 2003;34:73–79.
37. Bates DM, Eiff Cv C, McNamara PJ, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus  menD and hemB mutants are as infective as the 
parent strains, but the menadione biosynthetic mutant persists within the kidney. J Infect Dis . 
2003;187:1654–1661.
38. Vaudaux P , Francois P , Bisognano C, et  a l. Increased 
expression of clumping factor and fibronectin-binding proteins by hemB mutants of Staphylococcus aureus  
expressing small colony variant phenotypes. Infect 
Immun . 2002;70:5428–5437.
39. Williamson DA, Heffernan H, Nimmo G. Contemporary 
genomic approaches in the diagnosis and typing of Staphylococcus aureus . Pathology . 2015;47:270–275.
40. Carretto E, Bardaro M, Russello G, et  a l. Comparison of 
the Staphylococcus  QuickFISH BC test with the tube 
coagulase test performed on positive blood cultures for evaluation and application in a clinical routine setting. J 
Clin Microbiol . 2013;51:131–135.
41. Laub RR, Knudsen JD. Clinical consequences of using 
PNA-FISH in Staphylococcal bacteraemia. Eur J Clin 
Microbiol Infect Dis . 2014;33:599–601.
42. Huletsky A, Lebel P , Picard FJ, et  a l. Identification of 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  carriage in less 
than 1 hour during a hospital surveillance program. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2005;40:976–981.
43. Zhang K, McClure JA, Elsayed S, et  a l. Novel multiplex 
PCR assay for simultaneous identification of community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  strains USA300 and USA400 and 
detection of mecA and Panton-Valentine leukocidin genes, with discrimination of Staphylococcus aureus  from 
coagulase-negative staphylococci. J Clin Microbiol. 2008;46:1118–1122.
44. Okolie CE, Wooldridge KG, Turner DP , et  a l. 
Development of a new pentaplex real-time PCR assay for the identification of poly-microbial specimens containing Staphylococcus aureus  and other staphylococci, with 
simultaneous detection of staphylococcal virulence and methicillin resistance markers. Mol Cell Probes. 
2015;29:144–150.
45. Harbarth S, Masuet-Aumatell C, Schrenzel J, et  a l. 
Evaluation of rapid screening and pre-emptive contact isolation for detecting and controlling methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in critical care: an 
interventional cohort study. Crit Care . 2006;10:R25.
46. Mendes RE, Watters AA, Rhomberg PR, et  a l. 
Performance of BD max StaphSR for screening of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  isolates among a contemporary and diverse collection from 146 institutions located in nine U.S. census regions: prevalence of mecA dropout mutants. J Clin Microbiol. 
2016;54:204–207.
47.
 Ito T, Hiramatsu K, Tomasz A, et  a l. Guidelines for 
reporting novel mecA gene homologues. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2012;56:4997–4999.
48. Garcia-Alvarez L, Holden MT, Lindsay H, et  a l. 
Meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  with a novel 
mecA homologue in human and bovine populations in the UK and Denmark: a descriptive study. Lancet Infect 
Dis. 2011;11:595–603.
49. Proulx MK, Palace SG, Gandra S, et  a l. Reversion from 
methicillin susceptibility to methicillin resistance in Staphylococcus aureus  during treatment of bacteremia.  
J Infect Dis . 2016;213:1041–1048.
50. Sogawa K, Watanabe M, Ishige T, et  a l. Rapid 
discrimination between methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  using 
MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Biocontrol Sci . 
2017;22:163–169.
51. Ruppe E, Cherkaoui A, Lazarevic V , et  a l. Establishing 
genotype-to-phenotype relationships in bacteria causing hospital-acquired pneumonia: a prelude to the application of clinical metagenomics. Antibiotics (Basel). 2017;6.
52. Styers D, Sheehan DJ, Hogan P , et  a l. Laboratory-based 
surveillance of current antimicrobial resistance patterns and trends among Staphylococcus aureus : 2005 status in 
the United States. Ann Clin Microbiol Antimicrob . 
2006;5:2.
53. Kanjilal S, Sater MRA, Thayer M, et  a l. Trends in 
Antibiotic Susceptibility in Staphylococcus aureus  in 
Boston, Massachusetts, from 2000 to 2014. J Clin 
Microbiol . 2018;56.
54. Cai Y , Venkatachalam I, Tee NW , et  a l. Prevalence of 
healthcare-associated infections and antimicrobial use among adult inpatients in Singapore acute-care hospitals: results from the first national point prevalence survey. Clin Infect Dis. 2017;64(suppl_2):S61–S67.
55.
 Enright MC, Robinson DA, Randle G, et  a l. The 
evolutionary history of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  (MRSA). Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2002;99:7687–7692.
56. Oliveira DC, Tomasz A, de Lencastre H. Secrets of 
success of a human pathogen: molecular evolution of pandemic clones of meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus . Lancet Infect Dis . 2002;2:180–189.
57. Enright MC, Day NP , Davies CE, et  a l. Multilocus 
sequence typing for characterization of methicillin-resistant and methicillin-susceptible clones of Staphylococcus aureus . J Clin Microbiol. 
2000;38:1008–1015.
58. Robinson DA, Enright MC. Evolutionary models of the 
emergence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2003;47:3926–3934.
59. Kuhn G, Francioli P , Blanc DS. Double-locus sequence 
typing using clfB and spa, a fast and simple method for epidemiological typing of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Clin Microbiol. 2007;45: 
54–62.
60. Rasigade JP , Laurent F , Lina G, et  a l. Global distribution 
and evolution of Panton-Valentine leukocidin-positive methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , 1981-2007. 
J Infect Dis . 2010;201:1589–1597.
61.
 Novick RP , Geisinger E. Quorum sensing in 
staphylococci. Annu Rev Genet. 2008;42:541–564.
62. Pragman AA, Schlievert PM. Virulence regulation in 
Staphylococcus aureus : the need for in vivo analysis of 
virulence factor regulation. FEMS Immunol Med 
Microbiol . 2004;42:147–154.
63. Balasubramanian D, Harper L, Shopsin B, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  pathogenesis in diverse host 
environments. Pathog Dis. 2017;75.
64. Novick RP , Ross HF , Projan SJ, et  a l. Synthesis of 
staphylococcal virulence factors is controlled by a regulatory RNA molecule. EMBO J. 1993;12:3967– 
3975.
65.
 Cheung AL, Bayer AS, Zhang G, et  a l. Regulation of 
virulence determinants in vitro and in vivo in Staphylococcus aureus . FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol . 
2004;40:1–9.
66. Gupta RK, Luong TT, Lee CY . RNAIII of the 
Staphylococcus aureus  agr system activates global 
regulator MgrA by stabilizing mRNA. Proc Natl Acad Sci 
USA. 2015;112:14036–14041.
67. Giraudo AT, Cheung AL, Nagel R. The sae locus of 
Staphylococcus aureus  controls exoprotein synthesis at the 
transcriptional level. Arch Microbiol . 1997;168:53–58.
68. Y arwood JM, McCormick JK, Schlievert PM. 
Identification of a novel two-component regulatory system that acts in global regulation of virulence factors of Staphylococcus aureus . J Bacteriol . 2001;183:1113– 
1123.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
2431.e3
69. Fournier B, Hooper DC. A new two-component 
regulatory system involved in adhesion, autolysis, and 
extracellular proteolytic activity of Staphylococcus aureus . 
J Bacteriol . 2000;182:3955–3964.
70. Berends ET, Horswill AR, Haste NM, et  a l. Nuclease 
expression by Staphylococcus aureus  facilitates escape 
from neutrophil extracellular traps. J Innate Immun . 
2010;2:576–586.
71. Luong TT, Dunman PM, Murphy E, et  a l. Transcription 
Profiling of the mgrA Regulon in Staphylococcus aureus . J 
Bacteriol . 2006;188:1899–1910.
72. Said-Salim B, Dunman PM, McAleese FM, et  a l. Global 
regulation of Staphylococcus aureus  genes by Rot. J 
Bacteriol . 2003;185:610–619.
73. Chan PF , Foster SJ. The role of environmental factors in 
the regulation of virulence-determinant expression in Staphylococcus aureus  8325-4. Microbiology . 1998;144(Pt 
9):2469–2479.
74. Bischoff M, Dunman P , Kormanec J, et  a l. Microarray-
based analysis of the Staphylococcus aureus  sigmaB 
regulon. J Bacteriol . 2004;186:4085–4099.
75. Entenza JM, Moreillon P , Senn MM, et  a l. Role of sigmaB 
in the expression of Staphylococcus aureus  cell wall 
adhesins ClfA and FnbA and contribution to infectivity in a rat model of experimental endocarditis. Infect 
Immun . 2005;73:990–998.
76. Lorenz U, Huttinger C, Schafer T, et  a l. The alternative 
sigma factor sigma B of Staphylococcus aureus  modulates 
virulence in experimental central venous catheter-related infections. Microbes Infect . 2008;10:217–223.
77.
 Lioliou E, Sharma CM, Caldelari I, et  a l. Global 
regulatory functions of the Staphylococcus aureus  
endoribonuclease III in gene expression. PLoS Genet. 
2012;8:e1002782.
78. Priest NK, Rudkin JK, Feil EJ, et  a l. From genotype to 
phenotype: can systems biology be used to predict Staphylococcus aureus  virulence? Nat Rev Microbiol. 
2012;10:791–797.
79. Mayville P , Ji G, Beavis R, et  a l. Structure-activity analysis 
of synthetic autoinducing thiolactone peptides from Staphylococcus aureus  responsible for virulence. Proc Natl 
Acad Sci USA. 1999;96:1218–1223.
80. Cheung AL, Eberhardt KJ, Chung E, et  a l. Diminished 
virulence of a sar-/agr- mutant of Staphylococcus aureus  
in the rabbit model of endocarditis. J Clin Invest. 
1994;94:1815–1822.
81. Que YA, Haefliger JA, Piroth L, et  a l. Fibrinogen and 
fibronectin binding cooperate for valve infection and invasion in Staphylococcus aureus  experimental 
endocarditis. J Exp Med. 2005;201:1627–1635.
82. Piroth L, Que YA, Widmer E, et  a l. The fibrinogen- and 
fibronectin-binding domains of Staphylococcus aureus  
fibronectin-binding protein A synergistically promote endothelial invasion and experimental endocarditis. Infect 
Immun . 2008;76:3824–3831.
83. Cheung AL, Nast CC, Bayer AS. Selective activation of 
sar promoters with the use of green fluorescent protein transcriptional fusions as the detection system in the rabbit endocarditis model. Infect Immun . 
1998;66:5988–5993.
84. Y arwood JM, McCormick JK, Paustian ML, et  a l. 
Repression of the Staphylococcus aureus  accessory gene 
regulator in serum and in vivo. J Bacteriol . 
2002;184:1095–1101.
85. Goerke C, Wolz C. Adaptation of Staphylococcus aureus  
to the cystic fibrosis lung. Int J Med Microbiol . 
2010;300:520–525.
86. Smyth DS, Kafer JM, Wasserman GA, et  a l. Nasal 
carriage as a source of agr-defective Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. J Infect Dis . 2012;206:1168–1177.
87. Boles BR, Horswill AR. Agr-mediated dispersal of 
Staphylococcus aureus  biofilms. PLoS Pathog. 
2008;4:e1000052.
88. Archer NK, Mazaitis MJ, Costerton JW , et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  biofilms: properties, regulation, and 
roles in human disease. Virulence . 2011;2:445–459.
89. Ji G, Beavis R, Novick RP . Bacterial interference caused 
by autoinducing peptide variants. Science . 
1997;276:2027–2030.
90. Kahl BC, Becker K, Friedrich AW , et  a l. agr-dependent 
bacterial interference has no impact on long-term colonization of Staphylococcus aureus  during persistent 
airway infection of cystic fibrosis patients. J Clin 
Microbiol . 2003;41:5199–5201.
91.
 Dufour P , Jarraud S, Vandenesch F , et  a l. High genetic 
variability of the agr locus in Staphylococcus  species. J 
Bacteriol . 2002;184:1180–1186.
92. Weidenmaier C, Kokai-Kun JF , Kristian SA, et  a l. Role of 
teichoic acids in Staphylococcus aureus  nasal colonization, 
a major risk factor in nosocomial infections. Nat Med . 
2004;10:243–245.
93. O’Brien LM, Walsh EJ, Massey RC, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus  clumping factor B (ClfB) promotes adherence to human type I cytokeratin 10: implications for nasal colonization. Cell Microbiol . 2002;4:759–770.
94. Roche FM, Meehan M, Foster TJ. The Staphylococcus 
aureus  surface protein SasG and its homologues promote 
bacterial adherence to human desquamated nasal epithelial cells. Microbiology . 2003;149(Pt 10):2759–2767.
95. Corrigan RM, Miajlovic H, Foster TJ. Surface proteins 
that promote adherence of Staphylococcus aureus  to 
human desquamated nasal epithelial cells. BMC 
Microbiol . 2009;9:22.
96. Patti JM, Allen BL, McGavin MJ, et  a l. MSCRAMM-
mediated adherence of microorganisms to host tissues. Annu Rev Microbiol . 1994;48:585–617.
97.
 Roche FM, Massey R, Peacock SJ, et  a l. Characterization 
of novel LPXTG-containing proteins of Staphylococcus 
aureus  identified from genome sequences. Microbiology . 
2003;149(Pt 3):643–654.
98. Mazmanian SK, Liu G, Ton-That H, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus  sortase, an enzyme that anchors surface proteins 
to the cell wall. Science . 1999;285:760–763.
99. Bradshaw WJ, Davies AH, Chambers CJ, et  a l. Molecular 
features of the sortase enzyme family. FEBS J. 
2015;282:2097–2114.
100. Askarian F , Ajayi C, Hanssen AM, et  a l. The interaction 
between Staphylococcus aureus  SdrD and desmoglein 1 is 
important for adhesion to host cells. Sci Rep. 2016;6.
101. Geoghegan JA, Corrigan RM, Gruszka DT, et  a l. Role of 
surface protein SasG in biofilm formation by Staphylococcus aureus . J Bacteriol . 2010;192:5663–5673.
102. Mazmanian SK, Skaar EP , Gaspar AH, et  a l. Passage of 
heme-iron across the envelope of Staphylococcus aureus . 
Science . 2003;299:906–909.
103. Clement S, Vaudaux P , Francois P , et  a l. Evidence of an 
intracellular reservoir in the nasal mucosa of patients with recurrent Staphylococcus aureus  rhinosinusitis. J 
Infect Dis . 2005;192:1023–1028.
104. Nouwen J, Boelens H, van Belkum A, et  a l. Human factor 
in Staphylococcus aureus  nasal carriage. Infect Immun . 
2004;72:6685–6688.
105. Grothe C, Taminato M, Belasco A, et  a l. Prophylactic 
treatment of chronic renal disease in patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis and colonized by Staphylococcus 
aureus : a systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC 
Nephrol . 2016;17:115.
106. Chirouze C, Alla F , Fowler VG Jr, et  a l. Impact of early 
valve surgery on outcome of Staphylococcus aureus  
prosthetic valve infective endocarditis: analysis in the International Collaboration of Endocarditis-Prospective Cohort Study. Clin Infect Dis. 2015;60:741–749.
107. McDevitt D, François P , Vaudaux P , et  a l. Molecular 
characterization of the clumping factor (fibrinogen receptor) of Staphylococcus aureus . Mol Microbiol . 
1994;11:237–248.
108. Massey RC, Kantzanou MN, Fowler T, et  a l. Fibronectin-
binding protein A of Staphylococcus aureus  has multiple, 
substituting, binding regions that mediate adherence to fibronectin and invasion of endothelial cells. Cell 
Microbiol . 2001;3:839–851.
109. Massey RC, Dissanayeke SR, Cameron B, et  a l. Functional 
blocking of Staphylococcus aureus  adhesins following 
growth in ex vivo media. Infect Immun . 
2002;70:5339–5345.
110. Kroh HK, Panizzi P , Bock PE. Von Willebrand 
factor-binding protein is a hysteretic conformational activator of prothrombin. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2009;106:7786–7791.
111. Rooijakkers SH, Ruyken M, van Roon J, et  a l. Early 
expression of SCIN and CHIPS drives instant immune evasion by Staphylococcus aureus . Cell Microbiol . 
2006;8:1282–1293.
112. Peetermans M, Vanassche T, Liesenborghs L, et  a l. 
Plasminogen activation by staphylokinase enhances local spreading of S. aureus in skin infections. BMC Microbiol. 
2014;14:310.
113. van Wamel WJ, Rooijakkers SH, Ruyken M, et  a l. The 
innate immune modulators staphylococcal complement inhibitor and chemotaxis inhibitory protein of Staphylococcus aureus  are located on beta-hemolysin-
converting bacteriophages. J Bacteriol . 
2006;188:1310–1315.
114. Resch G, Francois P , Morisset D, et  a l. Human-to-bovine 
jump of Staphylococcus aureus  CC8 is associated with the 
loss of a beta-hemolysin converting prophage and the acquisition of a new staphylococcal cassette chromosome. PLoS ONE. 2013;8:e58187.
115. Patti JM, Bremell T, Krajewska-Pietrasik D, et  a l. The 
Staphylococcus aureus  collagen adhesin is a virulence 
determinant in experimental septic arthritis. Infect 
Immun . 1994;62:152–161.
116. Xu Y , Rivas JM, Brown EL, et  a l. Virulence potential of 
the staphylococcal adhesin CNA in experimental arthritis is determined by its affinity for collagen. J Infect Dis . 
2004;189:2323–2333.117.
 Liesenborghs L, Verhamme P , Vanassche T. 
Staphylococcus aureus , master manipulator of the human 
hemostatic system. J Thromb Haemost. 2018;16:441–454.
118. Loughman A, Fitzgerald JR, Brennan MP , et  a l. Roles for 
fibrinogen, immunoglobulin and complement in platelet activation promoted by Staphylococcus aureus  clumping 
factor A. Mol Microbiol . 2005;57:804–818.
119. Ruggeri ZM, Ware J. von Willebrand factor. FASEB J. 
1993;7:308–316.
120. Claes J, Liesenborghs L, Peetermans M, et  a l. Clumping 
factor A, von Willebrand factor-binding protein and von Willebrand factor anchor Staphylococcus aureus  to the 
vessel wall. J Thromb Haemost. 2017;15:1009–1019.
121.
 Veloso TR, Que YA, Chaouch A, et  a l. Prophylaxis of 
experimental endocarditis with antiplatelet and antithrombin agents: a role for long-term prevention of infective endocarditis in humans? J Infect Dis . 
2015;211:72–79.
122. Claes J, Vanassche T, Peetermans M, et  a l. Adhesion of 
Staphylococcus aureus  to the vessel wall under flow is 
mediated by von Willebrand factor-binding protein. Blood . 2014;124:1669–1676.
123. Kupferwasser LI, Y eaman MR, Shapiro SM, et  a l. In vitro 
susceptibility to thrombin-induced platelet microbicidal protein is associated with reduced disease progression and complication rates in experimental Staphylococcus 
aureus  endocarditis: microbiological, histopathologic, and 
echocardiographic analyses. Circulation . 
2002;105:746–752.
124. Bayer AS, Prasad R, Chandra J, et  a l. In vitro resistance of 
Staphylococcus aureus  to thrombin-induced platelet 
microbicidal protein is associated with alterations in cytoplasmic membrane fluidity. Infect Immun . 
2000;68:3548–3553.
125. Bayer AS, Cheng D, Y eaman MR, et  a l. In vitro resistance 
to thrombin-induced platelet microbicidal protein among clinical bacteremic isolates of Staphylococcus aureus  
correlates with an endovascular infectious source. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1998;42:3169–3172.
126. Resch A, Rosenstein R, Nerz C, et  a l. Differential gene 
expression profiling of Staphylococcus aureus  cultivated 
under biofilm and planktonic conditions. Appl Environ 
Microbiol . 2005;71:2663–2676.
127. Kim HK, Thammavongsa V , Schneewind O, et  a l. 
Recurrent infections and immune evasion strategies of Staphylococcus aureus . Curr Opin Microbiol . 
2012;15:92–99.
128. Guerra FE, Borgogna TR, Patel DM, et  a l. Epic immune 
battles of history: neutrophils vs. Staphylococcus aureus . 
Front Cell Infect Microbiol . 2017;7:286.
129. Wolf AJ, Underhill DM. Peptidoglycan recognition by the 
innate immune system. Nat Rev Immunol . 2018.
130. Chavakis T, Hussain M, Kanse SM, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus  extracellular adherence protein serves as 
anti-inflammatory factor by inhibiting the recruitment of host leukocytes. Nat Med . 2002;8:687–693.
131. Higgins J, Loughman A, van Kessel KP , et  a l. Clumping 
factor A of Staphylococcus aureus  inhibits phagocytosis by 
human polymorphonuclear leucocytes. FEMS Microbiol 
Lett. 2006;258:290–296.
132. Thiel M, Caldwell CC, Sitkovsky MV . The critical role of 
adenosine A2A receptors in downregulation of inflammation and immunity in the pathogenesis of infectious diseases. Microbes Infect . 2003;5:515–526.
133.
 Thammavongsa V , Kern JW , Missiakas DM, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  synthesizes adenosine to escape 
host immune responses. J Exp Med. 2009;206:2417– 
2427.
134. Smith EJ, Visai L, Kerrigan SW , et  a l. The Sbi protein is a 
multifunctional immune evasion factor of Staphylococcus 
aureus . Infect Immun . 2011;79:3801–3809.
135. Zipfel PF . Complement and immune defense: from innate 
immunity to human diseases. Immunol Lett . 
2009;126:1–7.
136. Lee LY , Hook M, Haviland D, et  a l. Inhibition of 
complement activation by a secreted Staphylococcus 
aureus  protein. J Infect Dis . 2004;190:571–579.
137. Sharp JA, Echague CG, Hair PS, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus  surface protein SdrE binds complement regulator 
factor H as an immune evasion tactic. PLoS ONE. 
2012;7:e38407.
138. Beavers WN, Skaar EP . Neutrophil-generated oxidative 
stress and protein damage in Staphylococcus aureus . 
Pathog Dis. 2016;74.
139. Brinkmann V , Reichard U, Goosmann C, et  a l. 
Neutrophil extracellular traps kill bacteria. Science . 
2004;303:1532–1535.
140. Lehrer RI, Ganz T. Antimicrobial peptides in mammalian 
and insect host defence. Curr Opin Immunol . 
1999;11:23–27.
141. Peschel A, Collins LV . Staphylococcal resistance to 
antimicrobial peptides of mammalian and bacterial origin. Peptides . 2001;22:1651–1659.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2431.e4
Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents142. Sass P , Bierbaum G. Native graS mutation supports the 
susceptibility of Staphylococcus aureus  strain SG511 to 
antimicrobial peptides. Int J Med Microbiol . 
2009;299:313–322.
143. Dinges MM, Orwin PM, Schlievert PM. Exotoxins of 
Staphylococcus aureus . Clin Microbiol Rev. 2000;13:16–34. 
Table of contents.
144. Wang R, Braughton KR, Kretschmer D, et  a l. 
Identification of novel cytolytic peptides as key virulence 
determinants for community-associated MRSA. Nat Med . 
2007;13:1510–1514.
145. Bhakdi S, Tranum-Jensen J. Alpha-toxin of Staphylococcus 
aureus . Microbiol Rev . 1991;55:733–751.
146. Berube BJ, Bubeck Wardenburg J. Staphylococcus aureus  
alpha-toxin: nearly a century of intrigue. Toxins (Basel). 
2013;5:1140–1166.
147. Wilke GA, Bubeck Wardenburg J. Role of a disintegrin 
and metalloprotease 10 in Staphylococcus aureus  
alpha-hemolysin-mediated cellular injury. Proc Natl Acad 
Sci USA. 2010;107:13473–13478.
148. Popov LM, Marceau CD, Starkl PM, et  a l. The adherens 
junctions control susceptibility to Staphylococcus aureus  
alpha-toxin. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2015;112:14337–14342.
149. Towle KM, Lohans CT, Miskolzie M, et  a l. Solution 
Structures of Phenol-Soluble Modulins alpha1, alpha3, and beta2, Virulence Factors from Staphylococcus aureus . 
Biochemistry . 2016;55:4798–4806.
150. von Eiff C, Friedrich AW , Peters G, et  a l. Prevalence of 
genes encoding for members of the staphylococcal leukotoxin family among clinical isolates of Staphylococcus aureus . Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 
2004;49:157–162.
151.
 Saeed K, Gould I, Espositio S, et  a l. Panton-Valentine 
leukocidin-positive Staphylococcus aureus : a position 
statement from the International Society of Chemotherapy. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 2018;51:16–25.
152. Sanchini A, Del Grosso M, Villa L, et  a l. Typing of 
Panton-Valentine leukocidin-encoding phages carried by methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  from Italy. Clin Microbiol Infect . 
2014;20:O840–O846.
153. Moran GJ, Krishnadasan A, Gorwitz RJ, et  a l. 
Methicillin-resistant S. aureus infections among patients in the emergency department. N Engl J Med . 
2006;355:666–674.
154. Lina G, Piemont Y , Godail-Gamot F , et  a l. Involvement of 
Panton-Valentine leukocidin-producing Staphylococcus aureus  in primary skin infections and pneumonia. Clin 
Infect Dis . 1999;29:1128–1132.
155. Nielsen MM, Witherden DA, Havran WL. gammadelta T 
cells in homeostasis and host defence of epithelial barrier tissues. Nat Rev Immunol . 2017;17:733–745.
156. Archer NK, Adappa ND, Palmer JN, et  a l. Interleukin-
17A (IL-17A) and IL-17F are critical for antimicrobial peptide production and clearance of Staphylococcus 
aureus  nasal colonization. Infect Immun . 
2016;84:3575–3583.
157. Cho JS, Pietras EM, Garcia NC, et  a l. IL-17 is essential 
for host defense against cutaneous Staphylococcus aureus  
infection in mice. J Clin Invest. 2010;120:1762–1773.
158. Tomi NS, Kranke B, Aberer E. Staphylococcal toxins in 
patients with psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, and erythroderma, and in healthy control subjects. J Am Acad 
Dermatol . 2005;53:67–72.
159. Bancsi MJ, Veltrop MH, Bertina RM, et  a l. Role of 
phagocytosis in activation of the coagulation system in Streptococcus sanguis  endocarditis. Infect Immun . 
1996;64:5166–5170.
160. Patel R. Biofilms and antimicrobial resistance. Clin 
Orthop Relat Res . 2005;437:41–47.
161. Begun J, Gaiani JM, Rohde H, et  a l. Staphylococcal 
biofilm exopolysaccharide protects against Caenorhabditis 
elegans  immune defenses. PLoS Pathog. 2007;3:e57.
162. Gerke C, Kraft A, Sussmuth R, et  a l. Characterization of 
the N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity involved in the biosynthesis of the Staphylococcus epidermidis  
polysaccharide intercellular adhesin. J Biol Chem. 
1998;273:18586–18593.
163. Heilmann C, Schweitzer O, Gerke C, et  a l. Molecular 
basis of intercellular adhesion in the biofilm-forming Staphylococcus epidermidis . Mol Microbiol . 
1996;20:1083–1091.
164. Francois P , Tu Quoc PH, Bisognano C, et  a l. Lack of 
biofilm contribution to bacterial colonisation in an experimental model of foreign body infection by Staphylococcus aureus  and Staphylococcus epidermidis . 
FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol . 2003;35:135–140.
165. Periasamy S, Joo HS, Duong AC, et  a l. How 
Staphylococcus aureus  biofilms develop their characteristic 
structure. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 2012;109:1281–1286.
166. Von Rittershain GR. Die exfloliative dermatitis jungere 
senglinge. Z Kinderheilkd . 1878;2.167. Y amaguchi T, Nishifuji K, Sasaki M, et  a l. Identification 
of the Staphylococcus aureus  etd pathogenicity island 
which encodes a novel exfoliative toxin, ETD, and EDIN-B. Infect Immun . 2002;70:5835–5845.
168. Ladhani S. Understanding the mechanism of action of 
the exfoliative toxins of Staphylococcus aureus . FEMS 
Immunol Med Microbiol . 2003;39:181–189.
169. Staiman A, Hsu DY , Silverberg JI. Epidemiology of 
staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome in U.S. children. Br 
J Dermatol . 2017.
170. Becker K, Friedrich AW , Lubritz G, et  a l. Prevalence of 
genes encoding pyrogenic toxin superantigens and exfoliative toxins among strains of Staphylococcus aureus  
isolated from blood and nasal specimens. J Clin 
Microbiol . 2003;41:1434–1439.
171. Nishifuji K, Sugai M, Amagai M. Staphylococcal 
exfoliative toxins: “molecular scissors” of bacteria that attack the cutaneous defense barrier in mammals.  
J Dermatol Sci. 2008;49:21–31.
172. Nishifuji K, Shimizu A, Ishiko A, et  a l. Removal of 
amino-terminal extracellular domains of desmoglein 1 by staphylococcal exfoliative toxin is sufficient to initiate epidermal blister formation. J Dermatol Sci. 
2010;59:184–191.
173. Lina G, Bohach GA, Nair SP , et  a l. Standard 
nomenclature for the superantigens expressed by Staphylococcus . J Infect Dis . 2004;189:2334–2336.
174. Fraser JD, Proft T. The bacterial superantigen and 
superantigen-like proteins. Immunol Rev . 
2008;225:226–243.
175. Stevens F . The occurrence of Staphylococcus aureus  
infection with a scarlatiniform rash. JAMA. 
1927;88:1957–1958.
176. Shands KN, Schmid GP , Dan BB, et  a l. Toxic-shock 
syndrome in menstruating women: association with tampon use and Staphylococcus aureus  and clinical 
features in 52 cases. N Engl J Med . 1980;303:1436– 
1442.
177. Shupp JW , Jett M, Pontzer CH. Identification of a 
transcytosis epitope on staphylococcal enterotoxins. Infect 
Immun . 2002;70:2178–2186.
178. Stolz SJ, Davis JP , Vergeront JM, et  a l. Development of 
serum antibody to toxic shock toxin among individuals with toxic shock syndrome in Wisconsin. J Infect Dis . 
1985;151:883–889.
179. Reingold AL, Hargrett NT, Shands KN, et  a l. Toxic shock 
syndrome surveillance in the United States, 1980 to 1981. Ann Intern Med. 1982;96(6 Pt 2):875–880.
180. McCormick JK, Y arwood JM, Schlievert PM. Toxic shock 
syndrome and bacterial superantigens: an update. Annu 
Rev Microbiol . 2001;55:77–104.
181. Hajjeh RA, Reingold A, Weil A, et  a l. Toxic shock 
syndrome in the United States: surveillance update, 1979 1996. Emerg Infect Dis. 1999;5:807–810.
182. Adalat S, Dawson T, Hackett SJ, et  a l. In association with 
the British Paediatric Surveillance U. Toxic shock syndrome surveillance in UK children. Arch Dis Child. 
2014;99:1078–1082.
183. Lamagni TL, Neal S, Keshishian C, et  a l. Severe 
Streptococcus pyogenes infections, United Kingdom, 2003-2004. Emerg Infect Dis. 2008;14:202–209.
184. Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF , et  a l. Practice 
guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by the infectious diseases society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 
2014;59:147–159.
185. Stevens DL, Gibbons AE, Bergstrom R, et  a l. The Eagle 
effect revisited: efficacy of clindamycin, erythromycin, and penicillin in the treatment of streptococcal myositis. J Infect Dis . 1988;158:23–28.
186. Shah SS, Hall M, Srivastava R, et  a l. Intravenous 
immunoglobulin in children with streptococcal  
toxic shock syndrome. Clin Infect Dis. 2009;49: 
1369–1376.
187. Kadri SS, Swihart BJ, Bonne SL, et  a l. Impact of 
intravenous immunoglobulin on survival in necrotizing fasciitis with vasopressor-dependent shock: a propensity score-matched analysis from 130 US hospitals. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2017;64:877–885.
188. Schwameis M, Roppenser B, Firbas C, et  a l. Safety, 
tolerability, and immunogenicity of a recombinant toxic shock syndrome toxin (rTSST)-1 variant vaccine: a randomised, double-blind, adjuvant-controlled, dose escalation first-in-man trial. Lancet Infect Dis . 
2016;16:1036–1044.
189. Argudin MA, Mendoza MC, Rodicio MR. Food 
poisoning and Staphylococcus aureus  enterotoxins. Toxins 
(Basel). 2010;2:1751–1773.
190. Fitzgerald JR, Reid SD, Ruotsalainen E, et  a l. Genome 
diversification in Staphylococcus aureus : molecular 
evolution of a highly variable chromosomal region encoding the Staphylococcal exotoxin-like family of proteins. Infect Immun . 2003;71:2827–2838.191. Petersson K, Pettersson H, Skartved NJ, et  a l. 
Staphylococcal enterotoxin H induces V alpha-specific expansion of T cells. J Immunol . 2003;170:4148–4154.
192. Y arwood JM, Leung DY , Schlievert PM. Evidence for the 
involvement of bacterial superantigens in psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, and Kawasaki syndrome. FEMS Microbiol Lett . 
2000;192:1–7.
193. Semic-Jusufagic A, Bachert C, Gevaert P , et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  sensitization and allergic disease  
in early childhood: population-based birth cohort study.  
J Allergy Clin Immunol . 2007;119:930–936.
194. Matsubara K, Fukaya T. The role of superantigens of 
group A Streptococcus  and Staphylococcus aureus  in 
Kawasaki disease. Curr Opin Infect Dis . 2007;20:298–303.
195. Feil EJ, Cooper JE, Grundmann H, et  a l. How clonal is 
Staphylococcus aureus ? J Bacteriol . 2003;185:3307–3316.
196. Robinson DA, Monk AB, Cooper JE, et  a l. Evolutionary 
genetics of the accessory gene regulator (agr) locus  
in Staphylococcus aureus . J Bacteriol . 2005;187:8312– 
8321.
197. Wright JS 3rd, Traber KE, Corrigan R, et  a l. The agr 
radiation: an early event in the evolution of staphylococci. J Bacteriol . 2005;187:5585–5594.
198. Kang CK, Cho JE, Choi YJ, et  a l. agr dysfunction affects 
staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec type-dependent clinical outcomes in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  bacteremia. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2015;59:3125–3132.
199. McAdam PR, Templeton KE, Edwards GF , et  a l. 
Molecular tracing of the emergence, adaptation, and transmission of hospital-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2012;109:9107–9112.
200. Fitzgerald JR. Livestock-associated Staphylococcus aureus : 
origin, evolution and public health threat. Trends 
Microbiol . 2012;20:192–198.
201. Drougka E, Foka A, Koutinas CK, et  a l. Interspecies 
spread of Staphylococcus aureus  clones among companion 
animals and human close contacts in a veterinary teaching hospital. A cross-sectional study in Greece. Prev 
Vet Med . 2016;126:190–198.
202. Schwaber MJ, Navon-Venezia S, Masarwa S, et  a l. Clonal 
transmission of a rare methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  genotype between horses and staff at a veterinary 
teaching hospital. Vet Microbiol . 2013;162:907–911.
203. Steinman A, Masarwa S, Tirosh-Levy S, et  a l. 
Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus  spa Type t002 
Outbreak in Horses and Staff at a Veterinary Teaching Hospital after Its Presumed Introduction by a Veterinarian. J Clin Microbiol. 2015;53:2827–2831.
204. Armand-Lefevre L, Ruimy R, Andremont A. Clonal 
comparison of Staphylococcus aureus  isolates from 
healthy pig farmers, human controls, and pigs. Emerg 
Infect Dis . 2005;11:711–714.
205. Price LB, Stegger M, Hasman H, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus  CC398: host adaptation and emergence of 
methicillin resistance in livestock. MBio . 2012;3: 
e00305–e00311.
206. Sakwinska O, Kuhn G, Balmelli C, et  a l. Genetic diversity 
and ecological success of Staphylococcus aureus  strains 
colonizing humans. Appl Environ Microbiol . 
2009;75:175–183.
207. Rooijakkers SH, Ruyken M, Roos A, et  a l. Immune 
evasion by a staphylococcal complement inhibitor  
that acts on C3 convertases. Nat Immunol . 2005;6: 
920–927.
208. Katayama Y , Baba T, Sekine M, et  a l. Beta-hemolysin 
promotes skin colonization by Staphylococcus aureus .  
J Bacteriol . 2013;195:1194–1203.
209. Verkade E, Bergmans AM, Budding AE, et  a l. Recent 
emergence of Staphylococcus aureus  clonal complex 398 
in human blood cultures. PLoS ONE. 2012;7:e41855.
210. Larsen J, Petersen A, Sorum M, et  a l. Meticillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus  CC398 is an increasing cause of 
disease in people with no livestock contact in Denmark, 1999 to 2011. Euro Surveill . 2015;20.
211. Brennan GI, Abbott Y , Burns A, et  a l. The emergence and 
spread of multiple livestock-associated clonal complex 398 methicillin-resistant and methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus  strains among animals and humans 
in the Republic of Ireland, 2010-2014. PLoS ONE. 
2016;11:e0149396.
212. Wardyn SE, Forshey BM, Farina SA, et  a l. Swine farming 
is a risk factor for infection with and high prevalence of carriage of multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . 
Clin Infect Dis. 2015;61:59–66.
213. Lowder BV , Guinane CM, Ben Zakour NL, et  a l. Recent 
human-to-poultry host jump, adaptation, and pandemic spread of Staphylococcus aureus . Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2009;106:19545–19550.
214. Boss R, Cosandey A, Luini M, et  a l. Bovine 
Staphylococcus aureus : subtyping, evolution, and zoonotic 
transfer. J Dairy Sci. 2016;99:515–528.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
2431.e5
215. Lindsay JA, Ruzin A, Ross HF , et  a l. The gene for toxic 
shock toxin is carried by a family of mobile pathogenicity 
islands in Staphylococcus aureus . Mol Microbiol . 
1998;29:527–543.
216. Ruzin A, Lindsay J, Novick RP . Molecular genetics of 
SaPI1–a mobile pathogenicity island in Staphylococcus 
aureus . Mol Microbiol . 2001;41:365–377.
217. Tormo-Mas MA, Mir I, Shrestha A, et  a l. Moonlighting 
bacteriophage proteins derepress staphylococcal pathogenicity islands. Nature . 2010;465:779–782.
218. Ubeda C, Maiques E, Knecht E, et  a l. Antibiotic-induced 
SOS response promotes horizontal dissemination of pathogenicity island-encoded virulence factors in staphylococci. Mol Microbiol . 2005;56:836–844.
219. Katayama Y , Ito T, Hiramatsu K. A new class of genetic 
element, Staphylococcus  cassette chromosome mec, 
encodes methicillin resistance in Staphylococcus aureus . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2000;44:1549–1555.
220. Ito T, Okuma K, Ma XX, et  a l. Insights on antibiotic 
resistance of Staphylococcus aureus  from its whole 
genome: genomic island SCC. Drug Resist Updat . 
2003;6:41–52.
221. Chambers HF , Hartman BJ, Tomasz A. Increased 
amounts of a novel penicillin-binding protein in a strain of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  exposed to 
nafcillin. J Clin Invest. 1985;76:325–331.
222. Zhang HZ, Hackbarth CJ, Chansky KM, et  a l. A 
proteolytic transmembrane signaling pathway and resistance to beta-lactams in staphylococci. Science . 
2001;291:1962–1965.
223.
 International Working Group on the Classification of 
Staphylococcal Cassette Chromosome E. Classification of staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec): guidelines for reporting novel SCCmec elements. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2009;53:4961–4967.
224. Wu Z, Li F , Liu D, et  a l. Novel type XII staphylococcal 
cassette chromosome mec harboring a new cassette chromosome recombinase, CcrC2. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2015;59:7597–7601.
225. Ito T, Katayama Y , Asada K, et  a l. Structural comparison 
of three types of staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec integrated in the chromosome in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2001;45:1323–1336.
226. Ma XX, Ito T, Tiensasitorn C, et  a l. Novel type of 
staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec identified in community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  strains. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2002;46:1147–1152.
227. Diep BA, Gill SR, Chang RF , et  a l. Complete genome 
sequence of USA300, an epidemic clone of community-acquired meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . 
Lancet . 2006;367:731–739.
228. Diep BA, Stone GG, Basuino L, et  a l. The arginine 
catabolic mobile element and staphylococcal chromosomal cassette mec linkage: convergence of virulence and resistance in the USA300 clone of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Infect Dis . 
2008;197:1523–1530.
229. Bouchiat C, Curtis S, Spiliopoulou I, et  a l. MRSA 
infections among patients in the emergency department: a European multicentre study. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2017;72:372–375.
230. Glaser P , Martins-Simoes P , Villain A, et  a l. Demography 
and intercontinental spread of the USA300 community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
lineage. MBio . 2016;7:e02183-02115.
231. Petersen A, Stegger M, Heltberg O, et  a l. Epidemiology of 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  carrying the 
novel mecC gene in Denmark corroborates a zoonotic reservoir with transmission to humans. Clin Microbiol 
Infect . 2013;19:E16–E22.
232. Ba X, Harrison EM, Lovering AL, et  a l. Old drugs to treat 
resistant bugs: methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
isolates with mecC are susceptible to a combination of penicillin and clavulanic acid. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2015;59:7396–7404.
233. Franciolli M, Bille J, Glauser MP , et  a l. Beta-lactam 
resistance mechanisms of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Infect Dis . 1991;163: 
514–523.
234. Mancini S, Laurent F , Veloso TR, et  a l. In vivo effect of 
flucloxacillin in experimental endocarditis caused by mecC-positive Staphylococcus aureus  showing 
temperature-dependent susceptibility in vitro. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2015;59:2435–2438.
235. Lowy FD. Antimicrobial resistance: the example of 
Staphylococcus aureus . J Clin Invest. 2003;111: 
1265–1273.
236. Fowler VG Jr, Boucher HW , Corey GR, et  a l. Daptomycin 
versus standard therapy for bacteremia and endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus . N Engl J Med . 
2006;355:653–665.237. Abbas M, Paul M, Huttner A. New and improved? A 
review of novel antibiotics for Gram-positive bacteria. Clin Microbiol Infect . 2017;23:697–703.
238. Watanabe S, Ohnishi T, Yuasa A, et  a l. The first 
nationwide surveillance of antibacterial susceptibility patterns of pathogens isolated from skin and soft-tissue infections in dermatology departments in Japan. J Infect 
Chemother . 2017;23:503–511.
239. Goffin C, Ghuysen JM. Multimodular penicillin-binding 
proteins: an enigmatic family of orthologs and paralogs. Microbiol Mol Biol Rev . 1998;62:1079–1093.
240. Gillespie MT, May JW , Skurray RA. Antibiotic resistance 
in Staphylococcus aureus  isolated at an Australian hospital 
between 1946 and 1981. J Med Microbiol. 1985;19:137–147.
241. Stefanaki C, Ieronymaki A, Matoula T, et  a l. Six-Y ear 
Retrospective Review of Hospital Data on Antimicrobial Resistance Profile of Staphylococcus aureus  Isolated from 
Skin Infections from a Single Institution in Greece. Antibiotics (Basel). 2017;6.
242. Richter SS, Doern GV , Heilmann KP , et  a l. Detection and 
Prevalence of Penicillin-Susceptible Staphylococcus aureus  
in the United States in 2013. J Clin Microbiol. 
2016;54:812–814.
243. Nguyen HM, Jones RN. Treatment of methicillin-
susceptible Staphylococcus aureus  osteoarticular and 
prosthetic joint infections: using the oxacillin minimum inhibitory concentration to guide appropriate ceftriaxone use. Clin Infect Dis. 2013;57:161–162.
244. Kang N, Housman ST, Nicolau DP . Assessing the 
Surrogate Susceptibility of Oxacillin and Cefoxitin for Commonly Utilized Parenteral Agents against Methicillin-Susceptible Staphylococcus aureus : focus on 
Ceftriaxone Discordance between Predictive Susceptibility and in Vivo Exposures. Pathogens. 
2015;4:599–605.
245. Jevons MP , Coe AW , Parker MT. Methicillin resistance in 
staphylococci. Lancet . 1963;1:904–907.
246. Panlilio AL, Culver DH, Gaynes RP , et  a l. Methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in U.S. hospitals, 
1975-1991. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 
1992;13:582–586.
247. Song Y , Du X, Li T, et  a l. Phenotypic and molecular 
characterization of Staphylococcus aureus  recovered from 
different clinical specimens of inpatients at a teaching hospital in Shanghai between 2005 and 2010. J Med 
Microbiol . 2013;62(Pt 2):274–282.
248. Klein EY , Mojica N, Jiang W , et  a l. Trends in 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
hospitalizations in the United States, 2010-2014. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2017;65:1921–1923.
249. Walter J, Noll I, Feig M, et  a l. Decline in the proportion 
of methicillin resistance among Staphylococcus aureus  
isolates from non-invasive samples and in outpatient settings, and changes in the co-resistance profiles: an analysis of data collected within the Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance Network, Germany 2010 to 2015. BMC Infect Dis. 2017;17:169.
250. Li L, Fortin E, Tremblay C, et  a l. Hospital-acquired 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bloodstream 
infections in Quebec: impact of guidelines. Infect Control 
Hosp Epidemiol . 2017;38:840–847.
251. Rolain JM, Abat C, Brouqui P , et  a l. Worldwide decrease 
in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : do we 
understand something? Clin Microbiol Infect . 
2015;21:515–517.
252. Gustave CA, Tristan A, Martins-Simoes P , et  a l. 
Demographic fluctuation of community-acquired antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  lineages: 
potential role of flimsy antibiotic exposure. ISME J. 
2018;8:1879–1894.
253. Johnson AC, Jurgens MD, Nakada N, et  a l. Linking 
changes in antibiotic effluent concentrations to flow, removal and consumption in four different UK sewage treatment plants over four years. Environ Pollut . 
2017;220(Pt B):919–926.
254.
 DeLeo FR, Otto M, Kreiswirth BN, et  a l. Community-
associated meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . 
Lancet . 2010;375:1557–1568.
255. Dietrich DW , Auld DB, Mermel LA. Community-
acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in 
southern New England children. Pediatrics . 
2004;113:e347–e352.
256. Salgado CD, Farr BM, Calfee DP . Community-acquired 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : a 
meta-analysis of prevalence and risk factors. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2003;36:131–139.
257. Qiao Y , Dong F , Song W , et  a l. Hospital- and 
community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : a 6-year surveillance study of 
invasive infections in Chinese children. Acta Paediatr . 
2013;102:1081–1086.
258. Miller LG, Perdreau-Remington F , Rieg G, et  a l. 
Necrotizing fasciitis caused by community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in Los 
Angeles. N Engl J Med . 2005;352:1445–1453.
259. Vandenesch F , Naimi T, Enright MC, et  a l. Community-
acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
carrying Panton-Valentine leukocidin genes: worldwide emergence. Emerg Infect Dis. 2003;9:978–984.
260. Coombs GW , Daly DA, Pearson JC, et  a l. Community-
onset Staphylococcus aureus  Surveillance Programme 
annual report, 2012. Commun Dis Intell Q Rep . 
2014;38:E59–E69.
261. Diekema DJ, Richter SS, Heilmann KP , et  a l. Continued 
emergence of USA300 methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  in the United States: results from a nationwide 
surveillance study. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 
2014;35:285–292.
262. Strauss L, Stegger M, Akpaka PE, et  a l. Origin, evolution, 
and global transmission of community-acquired Staphylococcus aureus  ST8. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2017;114:E10596–E10604.
263. Williamson DA, Roberts SA, Ritchie SR, et  a l. Clinical 
and molecular epidemiology of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in New Zealand: rapid emergence 
of sequence type 5 (ST5)-SCCmec-IV as the dominant community-associated MRSA clone. PLoS ONE. 
2013;8:e62020.
264. Labandeira-Rey M, Couzon F , Boisset S, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  Panton-Valentine leukocidin causes 
necrotizing pneumonia. Science . 2007;315:1130–1133.
265. Voyich JM, Otto M, Mathema B, et  a l. Is Panton-
Valentine leukocidin the major virulence determinant in community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  disease? J Infect Dis . 
2006;194:1761–1770.
266. Spaan AN, Henry T, van Rooijen WJ, et  a l. The 
staphylococcal toxin Panton-Valentine Leukocidin targets human C5a receptors. Cell Host Microbe. 
2013;13:584–594.
267. Prince A, Wang H, Kitur K, et  a l. Humanized mice 
exhibit increased susceptibility to Staphylococcus aureus  
pneumonia. J Infect Dis . 2017;215:1386–1395.
268. Rouzic N, Janvier F , Libert N, et  a l. Prompt and 
successful toxin-targeting treatment of three patients with necrotizing pneumonia due to Staphylococcus aureus  
strains carrying the Panton-Valentine leukocidin genes.  
J Clin Microbiol. 2010;48:1952–1955.
269. Gauduchon V , Cozon G, Vandenesch F , et  a l. 
Neutralization of Staphylococcus aureus  Panton Valentine 
leukocidin by intravenous immunoglobulin in vitro.  
J Infect Dis . 2004;189:346–353.
270. Hryniewicz MM, Garbacz K. Borderline oxacillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus  (BORSA) - a more 
common problem than expected? J Med Microbiol. 
2017;66:1367–1373.
271. de Jonge BL, Tomasz A. Abnormal peptidoglycan 
produced in a methicillin-resistant strain of Staphylococcus aureus  grown in the presence of 
methicillin: functional role for penicillin-binding protein 2A in cell wall synthesis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
1993;37:342–346.
272. de Lencastre H, Tomasz A. Reassessment of the number 
of auxiliary genes essential for expression of high-level methicillin resistance in Staphylococcus aureus . 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1994;38:2590– 
2598.
273. Berger-Bachi B. Expression of resistance to methicillin. 
Trends Microbiol. 1994;2:389–393.
274. Pinho MG, de Lencastre H, Tomasz A. An acquired and a 
native penicillin-binding protein cooperate in building the cell wall of drug-resistant staphylococci. Proc Natl 
Acad Sci USA. 2001;98:10886–10891.
275. Lim D, Strynadka NC. Structural basis for the beta 
lactam resistance of PBP2a from methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Nat Struct Biol . 2002;9:870–876.
276. Que YA, Entenza JM, Francioli P , et  a l. The impact of 
penicillinase on cefamandole treatment and prophylaxis of experimental endocarditis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Infect Dis . 1998;177:146–154.
277. Tomasz A. Intelligence coup” for drug designers: crystal 
structure of Staphylococcus aureus  beta-lactam resistance 
protein PBP2A. Lancet . 2003;361:795–796.
278. Guignard B, Entenza JM, Moreillon P . Beta-lactams 
against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Curr 
Opin Pharmacol . 2005;5:479–489.
279. Bal AM, David MZ, Garau J, et  a l. Future trends in the 
treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
(MRSA) infection: an in-depth review of newer antibiotics active against an enduring pathogen. J Glob 
Antimicrob Resist . 2017;10:295–303.
280. Chang FY , Peacock JE Jr, Musher DM, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: recurrence and the 
impact of antibiotic treatment in a prospective multicenter study. Medicine (Baltimore). 2003;82: 
333–339.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2431.e6
Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents281. CLSI. Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility 
Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically: Approved 
Standard; 2012.
282. Soriano A, Marco F , Martinez JA, et  a l. Influence of 
vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration on the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Clin Infect Dis. 2008;46:193–200.
283. Mavros MN, Tansarli GS, Vardakas KZ, et  a l. Impact of 
vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration on clinical outcomes of patients with vancomycin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus  infections: a meta-analysis and 
meta-regression. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 
2012;40:496–509.
284. Rybak M, Lomaestro B, Rotschafer JC, et  a l. Therapeutic 
monitoring of vancomycin in adult patients: a consensus review of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, the Infectious Diseases Society of America, and the Society of Infectious Diseases Pharmacists. Am J 
Health Syst Pharm. 2009;66:82–98.
285. Song KH, Kim M, Kim CJ, et  a l. Impact of Vancomycin 
MIC on Treatment Outcomes in Invasive Staphylococcus 
aureus  Infections. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2017; 
61.
286. Hiramatsu K, Hanaki H, Ino T, et  a l. Methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus  clinical strain with reduced 
vancomycin susceptibility. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
1997;40:135–136.
287. Sieradzki K, Roberts RB, Haber SW , et  a l. The 
development of vancomycin resistance in a patient with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  infection. N 
Engl J Med. 1999;340:517–523.
288. Hiramatsu K, Aritaka N, Hanaki H, et  a l. Dissemination 
in Japanese hospitals of strains of Staphylococcus aureus  
heterogeneously resistant to vancomycin. Lancet . 
1997;350:1670–1673.
289. Charles PG, Ward PB, Johnson PD, et  a l. Clinical features 
associated with bacteremia due to heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus . Clin 
Infect Dis . 2004;38:448–451.
290. Pereira PM, Filipe SR, Tomasz A, et  a l. Fluorescence ratio 
imaging microscopy shows decreased access of vancomycin to cell wall synthetic sites in vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2007;51:3627–3633.
291. Kuroda M, Kuroda H, Oshima T, et  a l. Two-component 
system VraSR positively modulates the regulation of cell-wall biosynthesis pathway in Staphylococcus aureus . 
Mol Microbiol . 2003;49:807–821.
292. Neoh HM, Cui L, Yuzawa H, et  a l. Mutated response 
regulator graR is responsible for phenotypic conversion of Staphylococcus aureus  from heterogeneous 
vancomycin-intermediate resistance to vancomycin-intermediate resistance. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2008;52:45–53.
293. Howden BP , Stinear TP , Allen DL, et  a l. Genomic analysis 
reveals a point mutation in the two-component sensor gene graS that leads to intermediate vancomycin resistance in clinical Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2008;52:3755–3762.
294. Howden BP , McEvoy CR, Allen DL, et  a l. Evolution of 
multidrug resistance during Staphylococcus aureus  
infection involves mutation of the essential two component regulator WalKR. PLoS Pathog. 
2011;7:e1002359.
295. Chen CJ, Huang YC, Chiu CH. Multiple pathways of 
cross-resistance to glycopeptides and daptomycin in persistent MRSA bacteraemia. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2015;70:2965–2972.
296. Dubrac S, Bisicchia P , Devine KM, et  a l. A matter of life 
and death: cell wall homeostasis and the WalKR (YycGF) essential signal transduction pathway. Mol Microbiol . 
2008;70:1307–1322.
297. Moreillon P , Bizzini A, Giddey M, et  a l. Vancomycin-
intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  selected during 
vancomycin therapy of experimental endocarditis are not detected by culture-based diagnostic procedures and persist after treatment arrest. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2012;67:652–660.
298. Yusof A, Engelhardt A, Karlsson A, et  a l. Evaluation of a 
new Etest vancomycin-teicoplanin strip for detection of glycopeptide-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus  (GISA), 
in particular, heterogeneous GISA. J Clin Microbiol. 
2008;46:3042–3047.
299. Arthur M, Courvalin P . Genetics and mechanisms of 
glycopeptide resistance in enterococci. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 1993;37:1563–1571.
300. Noble WC, Virani Z, Cree RG. Co-transfer of 
vancomycin and other resistance genes from Enterococcus 
faecalis  NCTC 12201 to Staphylococcus aureus . FEMS 
Microbiol Lett. 1992;72:195–198.
301. Walters MS, Eggers P , Albrecht V , et  a l. Vancomycin-
Resistant Staphylococcus aureus  - Delaware, 2015. 
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 2015;64:1056.302. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus –New Y ork, 
2004. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep . 2004;53:322–323.
303. Dezfulian A, Aslani MM, Oskoui M, et  a l. Identification 
and characterization of a high vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  harboring VanA gene cluster 
isolated from diabetic foot ulcer. Iran J Basic Med Sci . 
2012;15:803–806.
304. Rossi F , Diaz L, Wollam A, et  a l. Transferable vancomycin 
resistance in a community-associated MRSA lineage. N 
Engl J Med. 2014;370:1524–1531.
305. Panesso D, Planet PJ, Diaz L, et  a l. Methicillin-
Susceptible, Vancomycin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus , 
Brazil. Emerg Infect Dis. 2015;21:1844–1848.
306. Icgen B. VanA-type MRSA (VRSA) emerged in surface 
waters. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol . 2016;97:359–366.
307. Scott WR, Baek SB, Jung D, et  a l. NMR structural studies 
of the antibiotic lipopeptide daptomycin in DHPC micelles. Biochim Biophys Acta . 2007;1768:3116–3126.
308. Baltz RH, Miao V , Wrigley SK. Natural products to drugs: 
daptomycin and related lipopeptide antibiotics. Nat Prod 
Rep. 2005;22:717–741.
309. Murray KP , Zhao JJ, Davis SL, et  a l. Early use of 
daptomycin versus vancomycin for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia with vancomycin 
minimum inhibitory concentration >
1 mg/L: a matched 
cohort study. Clin Infect Dis. 2013;56:1562–1569.
310. Carugati M, Bayer AS, Miro JM, et  a l. High-dose 
daptomycin therapy for left-sided infective endocarditis: a prospective study from the international collaboration on endocarditis. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2013;57:6213–6222.
311. Seaton RA, Gonzalez-Ruiz A, Cleveland KO, et  a l. 
Real-world daptomycin use across wide geographical regions: results from a pooled analysis of CORE and EU-CORE. Ann Clin Microbiol Antimicrob . 2016;15: 
18.
312. Guleri A, Utili R, Dohmen P , et  a l. Daptomycin for the 
treatment of infective endocarditis: results from European Cubicin((R)) Outcomes Registry and Experience (EU-CORE). Infect Dis Ther. 2015;4:283–296.
313.
 Silverman JA, Mortin LI, Vanpraagh AD, et  a l. Inhibition 
of daptomycin by pulmonary surfactant: in vitro modeling and clinical impact. J Infect Dis . 
2005;191:2149–2152.
314. Rose WE, Leonard SN, Sakoulas G, et  a l. daptomycin 
activity against Staphylococcus aureus  following 
vancomycin exposure in an in vitro pharmacodynamic model with simulated endocardial vegetations. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2008;52:831–836.
315. Cui L, Tominaga E, Neoh HM, et  a l. Correlation between 
reduced daptomycin susceptibility and vancomycin resistance in vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus 
aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
2006;50:1079–1082.
316. Patel JB, Jevitt LA, Hageman J, et  a l. An association 
between reduced susceptibility to daptomycin and reduced susceptibility to vancomycin in Staphylococcus 
aureus . Clin Infect Dis. 2006;42:1652–1653.
317. Roch M, Gagetti P , Davis J, et  a l. Daptomycin resistance 
in clinical MRSA strains is associated with a high biological fitness cost. Front Microbiol . 2017;8:2303.
318. Renzoni A, Kelley WL, Rosato RR, et  a l. Molecular bases 
determining daptomycin resistance-mediated resensitization to beta-lactams (seesaw effect) in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2017;61.
319. Shafiq I, Bulman ZP , Spitznogle SL, et  a l. A combination 
of ceftaroline and daptomycin has synergistic and bactericidal activity in vitro against daptomycin nonsusceptible methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
(MRSA). Infect Dis (Lond). 2017;49:410–416.
320.
 Weisblum B. Erythromycin resistance by ribosome 
modification. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1995;39:577–585.
321. Levin TP , Suh B, Axelrod P , et  a l. Potential clindamycin 
resistance in clindamycin-susceptible, erythromycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : report of a clinical failure. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2005;49:1222–1224.
322. Putnam SD, Sader HS, Farrell DJ, et  a l. Antimicrobial 
characterisation of solithromycin (CEM-101), a novel fluoroketolide: activity against staphylococci and enterococci. Int J Antimicrob Agents . 2011;37:39–45.
323. Davis KA, Crawford SA, Fiebelkorn KR, et  a l. Induction 
of telithromycin resistance by erythromycin in isolates of macrolide-resistant Staphylococcus  spp. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2005;49:3059–3061.
324. Schaumburg F , Idelevich EA, Peters G, et  a l. Trends in 
antimicrobial non-susceptibility in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  from Germany (2004-2011). Clin 
Microbiol Infect . 2014;20:O554–O557.
325. Ross JI, Eady EA, Cove JH, et  a l. Identification of a 
chromosomally encoded ABC-transport system with which the staphylococcal erythromycin exporter MsrA may interact. Gene . 1995;153:93–98.
326. Clancy J, Petitpas J, Dib-Hajj F , et  a l. Molecular cloning 
and functional analysis of a novel macrolide-resistance determinant, mefA, from Streptococcus pyogenes. Mol 
Microbiol . 1996;22:867–879.
327. Vallianou N, Evangelopoulos A, Hadjisoteriou M, et  a l. 
Prevalence of macrolide, lincosamide, and streptogramin resistance among staphylococci in a tertiary care hospital in Athens, Greece. J Chemother. 2015;27:319–323.
328. Shashindran N, Nagasundaram N, Thappa DM, et  a l. Can 
Panton Valentine leukocidin gene and clindamycin susceptibility serve as predictors of community origin of MRSA from skin and soft tissue infections? J Clin Diagn 
Res. 2016;10:DC1–DC4.
329. Wunderink RG, Niederman MS, Kollef MH, et  a l. 
Linezolid in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
nosocomial pneumonia: a randomized, controlled study. Clin Infect Dis. 2012;54:621–629.
330. Falagas ME, Manta KG, Ntziora F , et  a l. Linezolid for the 
treatment of patients with endocarditis: a systematic review of the published evidence. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2006;58:273–280.
331. Watkins RR, Lemonovich TL, File TM Jr. An 
evidence-based review of linezolid for the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  (MRSA): place 
in therapy. Core Evid . 2012;7:131–143.
332. Chen CJ, Chiu CH, Lin TY , et  a l. Experience with 
linezolid therapy in children with osteoarticular infections. Pediatr Infect Dis J . 2007;26:985–988.
333. Stevens DL, Ma Y , Salmi DB, et  a l. Impact of antibiotics 
on expression of virulence-associated exotoxin genes in methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Infect Dis . 2007;195:202– 
211.
334. Beekmann SE, Gilbert DN, Polgreen PM, et  a l. Toxicity 
of extended courses of linezolid: results of an Infectious Diseases Society of America Emerging Infections Network survey. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 
2008;62:407–410.
335. Meka VG, Gold HS. Antimicrobial resistance to linezolid. 
Clin Infect Dis. 2004;39:1010–1015.
336. Mendes RE, Deshpande LM, Castanheira M, et  a l. First 
report of cfr-mediated resistance to linezolid in human staphylococcal clinical isolates recovered in the United States. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2008;52:2244– 
2246.
337. Long KS, Poehlsgaard J, Kehrenberg C, et  a l. The Cfr 
rRNA methyltransferase confers resistance to Phenicols, Lincosamides, Oxazolidinones, Pleuromutilins, and Streptogramin A antibiotics. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2006;50:2500–2505.
338. Mendes RE, Deshpande LM, Bonilla HF , et  a l. 
Dissemination of a pSCFS3-like cfr-carrying plasmid in Staphylococcus aureus  and Staphylococcus epidermidis  
clinical isolates recovered from hospitals in Ohio. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2013;57:2923–2928.
339. Shore AC, Lazaris A, Kinnevey PM, et  a l. First report of 
cfr-carrying plasmids in the pandemic sequence type 22 methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  staphylococcal 
cassette chromosome mec type IV clone. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2016;60:3007–3015.
340. Flamm RK, Mendes RE, Hogan PA, et  a l. Linezolid 
surveillance results for the United States (LEADER surveillance program 2014). Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2016;60:2273–2280.
341. Sader HS, Men des RE, Streit JM, et  a l. Antimicrobial 
susceptibility trends among Staphylococcus aureus  isolates 
from U.S. hospitals: results from 7 years of the ceftaroline (AW ARE) surveillance program, 2010 to 2016. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2017;61.
342. Rybak JM, Roberts K. Tedizolid phosphate: a 
next-generation oxazolidinone. Infect Dis Ther.  
2015.
343. Lepak AJ, Marchillo K, Pichereau S, et  a l. Comparative 
pharmacodynamics of the new oxazolidinone tedizolid phosphate and linezolid in a neutropenic murine Staphylococcus aureus  pneumonia model. Antimicrob 
Agents Chemother. 2012;56:5916–5922.
344. Shorr AF , Lodise TP , Corey GR, et  a l. Analysis of the 
phase 3 ESTABLISH trials of tedizolid versus linezolid in acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2015;59:864–871.
345. Dholakia N, Rolston KV , Ho DH, et  a l. Susceptibilities of 
bacterial isolates from patients with cancer to levofloxacin and other quinolones. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
1994;38:848–852.
346. Coombs GW , Nimmo GR, Daly DA, et  a l. Australian 
Staphylococcus aureus  Sepsis Outcome Programme 
annual report, 2013. Commun Dis Intell Q Rep . 
2014;38:E309–E319.
347. Jacoby GA. Mechanisms of resistance to quinolones. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2005;41 Suppl 2:S120–S126.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
2431.e7
348. Arsene S, Leclercq R. Role of a qnr-like gene in the 
intrinsic resistance of Enterococcus faecalis  to 
fluoroquinolones. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2007;51:3254–3258.
349. Y oshida H, Bogaki M, Nakamura S, et  a l. Nucleotide 
sequence and characterization of the Staphylococcus 
aureus  norA gene, which confers resistance to 
quinolones. J Bacteriol . 1990;172:6942–6949.
350. Fournier B, Hooper DC. Mutations in topoisomerase IV 
and DNA gyrase of Staphylococcus aureus : novel 
pleiotropic effects on quinolone and coumarin activity. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 1998;42:121–128.
351. Entenza JM, Vouillamoz J, Glauser MP , et  a l. Levofloxacin 
versus ciprofloxacin, flucloxacillin, or vancomycin for treatment of experimental endocarditis due to methicillin-susceptible or -resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
1997;41:1662–1667.
352. Remy JM, Tow-Keogh CA, McConnell TS, et  a l. Activity 
of delafloxacin against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus : resistance selection and characterization. J 
Antimicrob Chemother. 2012;67:2814–2820.
353. Craig W A. Does the dose matter? Clin Infect Dis. 2001;33 
Suppl 3:S233–S237.
354. Cui J, Liu Y , Wang R, et  a l. The mutant selection window 
in rabbits infected with Staphylococcus aureus . J Infect 
Dis. 2006;194:1601–1608.
355. Chopra I. Glycylcyclines: third-generation tetracycline 
antibiotics. Curr Opin Pharmacol . 2001;1:464–469.
356. Y ang Q, Xu YC, Kiratisin P , et  a l. Antimicrobial activity 
among gram-positive and gram-negative organisms collected from the Asia-Pacific region as part of the Tigecycline Evaluation and Surveillance Trial: comparison of 2015 results with previous years. Diagn Microbiol Infect 
Dis. 2017;89:314–323.
357. Y ahav D, Lador A, Paul M, et  a l. Efficacy and safety of 
tigecycline: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J 
Antimicrob Chemother. 2011;66:1963–1971.
358. Cocito C, Di Giambattista M, Nyssen E, et  a l. Inhibition 
of protein synthesis by streptogramins and related antibiotics. J Antimicrob Chemother. 1997;39 Suppl 
A:7–13.
359. Vouillamoz J, Entenza JM, Feger C, et  a l. Quinupristin-
dalfopristin combined with beta-lactams for treatment of experimental endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus  
constitutively resistant to macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin B antibiotics. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2000;44:1789–1795.
360. Billeter M, Zervos MJ, Chen AY , et  a l. Kurukularatne C. 
Dalbavancin: a novel once-weekly lipoglycopeptide antibiotic. Clin Infect Dis. 2008;46:577–583.
361. Allen NE, Nicas TI. Mechanism of action of oritavancin 
and related glycopeptide antibiotics. FEMS Microbiol Rev . 
2003;26:511–532.
362. Al Jalali V , Zeitlinger M. Clinical Pharmacokinetics and 
Pharmacodynamics of Telavancin Compared with the Other Glycopeptides. Clin Pharmacokinet . 2018.
363. Jauregui LE, Babazadeh S, Seltzer E, et  a l. Randomized, 
double-blind comparison of once-weekly dalbavancin versus twice-daily linezolid therapy for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2005;41:1407–1415.
364. Corey GR, Good S, Jiang H, et  a l. Single-dose oritavancin 
versus 7-10 days of vancomycin in the treatment of gram-positive acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections: the SOLO II noninferiority study. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2015;60:254–262.
365. Cremieux AC, Maziere B, Vallois JM, et  a l. Evaluation of 
antibiotic diffusion into cardiac vegetations by quantitative autoradiography. J Infect Dis . 
1989;159:938–944.
366. Steele JM, Seabury RW , Hale CM, et  a l. Unsuccessful 
treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis with dalbavancin. J Clin Pharm Ther . 
2018;43:101–103.
367. Falagas ME, Matthaiou DK, Bliziotis IA. The role of 
aminoglycosides in combination with a beta-lactam for the treatment of bacterial endocarditis: a meta-analysis of comparative trials. J Antimicrob Chemother. 
2006;57:639–647.
368. Davis JS, Van Hal S, Tong SY . Combination antibiotic 
treatment of serious methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  infections. Semin Respir Crit Care Med . 
2015;36:3–16.
369. Davis JS, Sud A, O’Sullivan MVN, et  a l. Combination of 
vancomycin and beta-lactam therapy for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: a pilot 
multicenter randomized controlled trial. Clin Infect Dis. 
2016;62:173–180.
370. Tong SY , Nelson J, Paterson DL, et  a l. CAMERA2 
- combination antibiotic therapy for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  infection: study protocol for a 
randomised controlled trial. Trials . 2016;17:170.371. Pericas JM, Moreno A, Almela M, et  a l. Efficacy and 
safety of fosfomycin plus imipenem versus vancomycin for complicated bacteraemia and endocarditis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : a randomized 
clinical trial. Clin Microbiol Infect . 2018.
372. Fuda C, Hesek D, Lee M, et  a l. Mechanistic basis for the 
action of new cephalosporin antibiotics effective against methicillin- and vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus . J Biol Chem. 2006;281:10035–10041.
373. Corey GR, Wilcox MH, Talbot GH, et  a l. CANV AS 1: the 
first Phase III, randomized, double-blind study evaluating ceftaroline fosamil for the treatment of patients with complicated skin and skin structure infections.  
J Antimicrob Chemother. 2010;65 Suppl 4:iv41–  
iv51.
374. Vidaillac C, Leonard SN, Rybak MJ. In vitro activity of 
ceftaroline against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  and heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate S. 
aureus in a hollow fiber model. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2009;53:4712–4717.
375. Sakoulas G, Moise PA, Casapao AM, et  a l. Antimicrobial 
salvage therapy for persistent staphylococcal bacteremia using daptomycin plus ceftaroline. Clin Ther. 
2014;36:1317–1333.
376. Valour F , Trouillet-Assant S, Riffard N, et  a l. 
Antimicrobial activity against intraosteoblastic Staphylococcus aureus . Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 
2015;59:2029–2036.
377. Ho TT, Cadena J, Childs LM, et  a l. Methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia and endocarditis 
treated with ceftaroline salvage therapy. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2012;67:1267–1270.
378. Pasquale TR, Tan MJ, Trienski TL, et  a l. Methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus  nosocomial pneumonia 
patients treated with ceftaroline: retrospective case series of 10 patients. J Chemother. 2015;27:29–34.
379. Pagani L, Bonnin P , Janssen C, et  a l. Ceftaroline for the 
treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . J Heart Valve 
Dis. 2014;23:219–221.
380. Lin JC, Aung G, Thomas A, et  a l. The use of ceftaroline 
fosamil in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis and deep-seated MRSA infections: a retrospective case series of 10 patients. J Infect 
Chemother . 2013;19:42–49.
381. Perumal Samy R, Stiles BG, Franco OL, et  a l. Animal 
venoms as antimicrobial agents. Biochem Pharmacol . 
2017;134:127–138.
382. de Breij A, Riool M, Cordfunke RA, et  a l. The 
antimicrobial peptide SAAP-148 combats drug-resistant bacteria and biofilms. Sci Transl Med. 2018;10.
383. Tajbakhsh M, Karimi A, Tohidpour A, et  a l. The 
antimicrobial potential of a new derivative of cathelicidin from Bungarus fasciatus against methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus . J Microbiol . 2018;56:128–137.
384. Torres VJ, Pishchany G, Humayun M, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  IsdB is a hemoglobin receptor 
required for heme iron utilization. J Bacteriol . 
2006;188:8421–8429.
385. McAdow M, Kim HK, Dedent AC, et  a l. Preventing 
Staphylococcus aureus  sepsis through the inhibition of its 
agglutination in blood. PLoS Pathog. 2011;7:e1002307.
386. Sully EK, Malachowa N, Elmore BO, et  a l. Selective 
chemical inhibition of agr quorum sensing in Staphylococcus aureus  promotes host defense with 
minimal impact on resistance. PLoS Pathog. 
2014;10:e1004174.
387. Raz A, Serrano A, Lawson C, et  a l. Lysibodies are IgG Fc 
fusions with lysin binding domains targeting Staphylococcus aureus  wall carbohydrates for effective 
phagocytosis. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA . 
2017;114:4781–4786.
388. Ko HHT, Lareu RR, Dix BR, et  a l. Statins: antimicrobial 
resistance breakers or makers? PeerJ. 2017;5:e3952.
389. Janda S, Y oung A, Fitzgerald JM, et  a l. The effect of 
statins on mortality from severe infections and sepsis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Crit Care . 
2010;25:656, e7–e22.
390. Caffrey AR, Timbrook TT, Noh E, et  a l. Evidence To 
Support Continuation of Statin Therapy in Patients with Staphylococcus aureus  Bacteremia. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2017;61.
391.
 Garcia-Fernandez E, Koch G, Wagner RM, et  a l. 
Membrane microdomain disassembly inhibits MRSA antibiotic resistance. Cell. 2017;171:1354–1367,  
e1320.
392. Thangamani S, Mohammad H, Abushahba MF , et  a l. 
Exploring simvastatin, an antihyperlipidemic drug, as a potential topical antibacterial agent. Sci Rep. 
2015;5:16407.
393. Lehar SM, Pillow T, Xu M, et  a l. Novel antibody-
antibiotic conjugate eliminates intracellular S. aureus. Nature . 2015;527:323–328.394.
 Fischetti V A. Bacteriophage endolysins: a novel 
anti-infective to control Gram-positive pathogens. Int J 
Med Microbiol . 2010;300:357–362.
395. Nobrega FL, Costa AR, Kluskens LD, et  a l. Revisiting 
phage therapy: new applications for old resources. Trends 
Microbiol . 2015;23:185–191.
396. Pastagia M, Euler C, Chahales P , et  a l. A novel chimeric 
lysin shows superiority to mupirocin for skin decolonization of methicillin-resistant and -sensitive Staphylococcus aureus  strains. Antimicrob Agents 
Chemother . 2011;55:738–744.
397. Y ang H, Zhang Y , Yu J, et  a l. Novel chimeric lysin with 
high-level antimicrobial activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in vitro and in vivo. 
Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2014;58:536–542.
398. Channabasappa S, Durgaiah M, Chikkamadaiah R, et  a l. 
Efficacy of novel antistaphylococcal ectolysin P128 in a rat model of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Antimicrob Agents Chemother . 2018;62.
399. Totte JEE, van Doorn MB, Pasmans S. Successful 
treatment of chronic Staphylococcus aureus -related 
dermatoses with the topical endolysin staphefekt SA.  
100: a report of 3 cases. Case Rep Dermatol . 2017;9: 
19–25.
400. Totte J, de Wit J, Pardo L, et  a l. Targeted anti-
staphylococcal therapy with endolysins in atopic dermatitis and the effect on steroid use, disease severity and the microbiome: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial (MAAS trial). Trials . 2017;18:404.
401.
 Cisek AA, Dabrowska I, Gregorczyk KP , et  a l. Phage 
therapy in bacterial infections treatment: one hundred years after the discovery of bacteriophages. Curr 
Microbiol . 2017;74:277–283.
402. Oechslin F , Piccardi P , Mancini S, et  a l. Synergistic 
interaction between phage therapy and antibiotics clears Pseudomonas aeruginosa  infection in endocarditis and 
reduces virulence. J Infect Dis . 2017;215:703–712.
403. Fish R, Kutter E, Wheat G, et  a l. Bacteriophage treatment 
of intransigent diabetic toe ulcers: a case series. J Wound 
Care . 2016;25 Suppl 7:S27–S33.
404. Shinefield H, Black S, Fattom A, et  a l. Use of a 
Staphylococcus aureus  conjugate vaccine in patients 
receiving hemodialysis. N Engl J Med . 2002;346:491– 
496.
405. Fowler VG, Allen KB, Moreira ED, et  a l. Effect of an 
investigational vaccine for preventing Staphylococcus 
aureus  infections after cardiothoracic surgery: a 
randomized trial. JAMA. 2013;309:1368–1378.
406. Fitzgerald JR, Loughman A, Keane F , et  a l. Fibronectin-
binding proteins of Staphylococcus aureus  mediate 
activation of human platelets via fibrinogen and fibronectin bridges to integrin GPIIb/IIIa and IgG binding to the FcgammaRIIa receptor. Mol Microbiol . 
2006;59:212–230.
407. Spaulding AR, Salgado-Pabon W , Merriman JA, et  a l. 
Vaccination against Staphylococcus aureus  pneumonia.  
J Infect Dis . 2014;209:1955–1962.
408. Mohamed N, Wang MY , Le Huec JC, et  a l. Vaccine 
development to prevent Staphylococcus aureus  
surgical-site infections. Br J Surg . 2017;104:e41–e54.
409. Weiner LM, Webb AK, Limbago B, et  a l. Antimicrobial-
resistant pathogens associated with healthcare-associated infections: summary of data reported to the National Healthcare Safety Network at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011-2014. Infect Control Hosp 
Epidemiol . 2016;37:1288–1301.
410. Magill SS, Edwards JR, Bamberg W , et  a l. Multistate 
point-prevalence survey of health care-associated infections. N Engl J Med . 2014;370:1198–1208.
411. Dantes R, Mu Y , Belflower R, et  a l. National burden of 
invasive methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
infections, United States, 2011. JAMA Intern Med. 
2013;173:1970–1978.
412. Malani PN. National burden of invasive methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus  infection. JAMA. 
2014;311:1438–1439.
413. Laupland KB, Church DL, Mucenski M, et  a l. 
Population-based study of the epidemiology of and the risk factors for invasive Staphylococcus aureus  infections.  
J Infect Dis . 2003;187:1452–1459.
414. van Hal SJ, Jensen SO, Vaska VL, et  a l. Predictors of 
mortality in Staphylococcus aureus  Bacteremia. Clin 
Microbiol Rev . 2012;25:362–386.
415. Goto M, Schweizer ML, Vaughan-Sarrazin MS, et  a l. 
Association of evidence-based care processes with mortality in Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia at Veterans 
Health Administration hospitals, 2003-2014. JAMA Intern 
Med . 2017;177:1489–1497.
416. Lambert ML, Suetens C, Savey A, et  a l. Clinical outcomes 
of health-care-associated infections and antimicrobial resistance in patients admitted to European intensive-care units: a cohort study. Lancet Infect Dis . 2011;11: 
30–38.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2431.e8
Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents417. Nguyen DB, Shugart A, Lines C, et  a l. National 
Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) dialysis event 
surveillance report for 2014. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol . 
2017;12:1139–1146.
418. Noskin GA, Rubin RJ, Schentag JJ, et  a l. National trends 
in Staphylococcus aureus  infection rates: impact on 
economic burden and mortality over a 6-year period (1998-2003). Clin Infect Dis. 2007;45:1132–1140.
419. Gidengil CA, Gay C, Huang SS, et  a l. Cost-effectiveness 
of strategies to prevent methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  transmission and infection in an 
intensive care unit. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 
2015;36:17–27.
420. Jacobsson G, Dashti S, Wahlberg T, et  a l. The 
epidemiology of and risk factors for invasive Staphylococcus aureus  infections in western Sweden. 
Scand J Infect Dis . 2007;39:6–13.
421. Diekema DJ, Pfaller MA, Schmitz FJ, et  a l. Survey of 
infections due to Staphylococcus  species: frequency of 
occurrence and antimicrobial susceptibility of isolates collected in the United States, Canada, Latin America, Europe, and the Western Pacific region for the SENTRY Antimicrobial Surveillance Program, 1997-1999. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2001;32 Suppl 2:S114–S132.
422. Fowler VG, Miro JM, Hoen B, et  a l. Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis: a consequence of medical progress. JAMA. 
2005;293:3012–3021.
423. Worth LJ, Bull AL, Spelman T, et  a l. Diminishing surgical 
site infections in Australia: time trends in infection rates, pathogens and antimicrobial resistance using a comprehensive Victorian surveillance program, 2002-2013. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 2015;36:409–416.
424. Mimoz O, Lucet JC, Kerforne T, et  a l. Skin antisepsis with 
chlorhexidine-alcohol versus povidone iodine-alcohol, with and without skin scrubbing, for prevention of intravascular-catheter-related infection (CLEAN): an open-label, multicentre, randomised, controlled, two-by-two factorial trial. Lancet . 2015;386:2069–2077.
425. Lee MS, Walker V , Chen LF , et  a l. The epidemiology of 
ventilator-associated pneumonia in a network of community hospitals: a prospective multicenter study. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 2013;34:657–662.
426. Que YA, Moreillon P . Infective endocarditis. Nat Rev 
Cardiol . 2011;8:322–336.
427. Selton-Suty C, Celard M, Le Moing V , et  a l. Preeminence 
of Staphylococcus aureus  in infective endocarditis: a 
1-year population-based survey. Clin Infect Dis. 
2012;54:1230–1239.
428. Hoen B, Duval X. Clinical practice. Infective endocarditis. 
N Engl J Med . 2013;368:1425–1433.
429. Mathews CJ, Weston VC, Jones A, et  a l. Bacterial septic 
arthritis in adults. Lancet . 2010;375:846–855.
430. Bernard L, Dinh A, Ghout I, et  a l. Antibiotic treatment 
for 6 weeks versus 12 weeks in patients with pyogenic vertebral osteomyelitis: an open-label, non-inferiority, randomised, controlled trial. Lancet . 2015;385:875–882.
431. Tande AJ, Patel R. Prosthetic joint infection. Clin 
Microbiol Rev . 2014;27:302–345.
432. Laupland KB. Incidence of bloodstream infection: a 
review of population-based studies. Clin Microbiol Infect . 
2013;19:492–500.
433. Laupland KB, Ross T, Gregson DB. Staphylococcus aureus  
bloodstream infections: risk factors, outcomes, and the influence of methicillin resistance in Calgary, Canada, 2000-2006. J Infect Dis . 2008;198:336–343.
434. van Rijen M, Bonten M, Wenzel R, et  a l. Mupirocin 
ointment for preventing Staphylococcus aureus  infections 
in nasal carriers. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 
2008;(4):CD006216.
435. Hidron AI, Edwards JR, Patel J, et  a l. NHSN annual 
update: antimicrobial-resistant pathogens associated with healthcare-associated infections: annual summary of data reported to the National Healthcare Safety Network at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2006-2007. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 2008;29:996–1011.
436. Acree ME, Morgan E, David MZ. S. aureus infections in 
Chicago, 2006-2014: increase in CA MSSA and decrease in MRSA incidence. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 
2017;38:1226–1234.
437. Kallen AJ, Mu Y , Bulens S, et  a l. Health care-associated 
invasive MRSA infections, 2005-2008. JAMA. 
2010;304:641–648.
438. Landrum ML, Neumann C, Cook C, et  a l. Epidemiology 
of Staphylococcus aureus  blood and skin and soft tissue 
infections in the US military health system, 2005-2010. JAMA. 2012;308:50–59.
439. Chambers HF , Deleo FR. Waves of resistance: 
Staphylococcus aureus  in the antibiotic era. Nat Rev 
Microbiol . 2009;7:629–641.
440. Uhlemann AC, Otto M, Lowy FD, et  a l. Evolution of 
community- and healthcare-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Infect Genet Evol . 
2014;21:563–574.441. Cosgrove SE. The relationship between antimicrobial 
resistance and patient outcomes: mortality, length of hospital stay, and health care costs. Clin Infect Dis. 
2006;42 Suppl 2:S82–S89.
442. Y aw LK, Robinson JO, Ho KM. A comparison of 
long-term outcomes after meticillin-resistant and meticillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus  bacteraemia: an 
observational cohort study. Lancet Infect Dis . 
2014;14:967–975.
443.
 Melles DC, Gorkink RF , Boelens HA, et  a l. Natural 
population dynamics and expansion of pathogenic clones of Staphylococcus aureus . J Clin Invest. 
2004;114:1732–1740.
444. Cameron DR, Howden BP , Peleg AY . The interface 
between antibiotic resistance and virulence in Staphylococcus aureus  and its impact upon clinical 
outcomes. Clin Infect Dis. 2011;53:576–582.
445. Miller LG, Daum RS, Creech CB, et  a l. Clindamycin 
versus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for uncomplicated skin infections. N Engl J Med . 2015;372:1093–1103.
446. David MZ, Daum RS. Community-associated 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : epidemiology 
and clinical consequences of an emerging epidemic. Clin 
Microbiol Rev . 2010;23:616–687.
447. Seybold U, Kourbatova EV , Johnson JG, et  a l. Emergence 
of community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  USA300 genotype as a major cause 
of health care-associated blood stream infections. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2006;42:647–656.
448. Jenkins TC, McCollister BD, Sharma R, et  a l. 
Epidemiology of healthcare-associated bloodstream infection caused by USA300 strains of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  in 3 affiliated hospitals. 
Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 2009;30:233–241.
449. Planet PJ. Life after USA300: the rise and fall of  
a superbug. J Infect Dis . 2017;215(suppl_1):S71– 
S77.
450. Mertz D, Frei R, Periat N, et  a l. Exclusive Staphylococcus 
aureus  throat carriage: at-risk populations. Arch Intern 
Med . 2009;169:172–178.
451. van Belkum A, Verkaik NJ, de Vogel CP , et  a l. 
Reclassification of Staphylococcus aureus  nasal carriage 
types. J Infect Dis . 2009;199:1820–1826.
452. Sollid JU, Furberg AS, Hanssen AM, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus : determinants of human carriage. Infect Genet 
Evol. 2014;21:531–541.
453. Burian M, Wolz C, Goerke C. Regulatory adaptation of 
Staphylococcus aureus  during nasal colonization of 
humans. PLoS ONE. 2010;5:e10040.
454. Wertheim HF , Walsh E, Choudhurry R, et  a l. Key role for 
clumping factor B in Staphylococcus aureus  nasal 
colonization of humans. PLoS Med. 2008;5:e17.
455. Clarke SR, Mohamed R, Bian L, et  a l. The Staphylococcus 
aureus  surface protein IsdA mediates resistance to innate 
defenses of human skin. Cell Host Microbe. 2007;1: 
199–212.
456. Lebon A, Labout JA, Verbrugh HA, et  a l. Dynamics and 
determinants of Staphylococcus aureus  carriage in infancy. 
The generation R study. J Clin Microbiol. 2008.
457. van Gils EJ, Hak E, Veenhoven RH, et  a l. Effect of 
seven-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine on Staphylococcus aureus  colonisation in a randomised 
controlled trial. PLoS ONE. 2011;6:e20229.
458. Price JR, Cole K, Bexley A, et  a l. Transmission of 
Staphylococcus aureus  between health-care workers, the 
environment, and patients in an intensive care unit: a longitudinal cohort study based on whole-genome sequencing. Lancet Infect Dis . 2017;17:207–214.
459. Simor AE. Staphylococcal decolonisation: an effective 
strategy for prevention of infection? Lancet Infect Dis . 
2011;11:952–962.
460. Gorwitz R, Kruszon-Moran D, McAllister S, et  a l. 
Changes in the prevalence of nasal colonization with Staphylococcus aureus  in the United States, 2001-2004.  
J Infect Dis . 2008;197:1226–1234.
461. Fuller C, Robotham J, Savage J, et  a l. The national one 
week prevalence audit of universal meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  (MRSA) admission screening 2012. 
PLoS ONE. 2013;8:e74219.
462. McKinnell JA, Miller LG, Eells SJ, et  a l. A systematic 
literature review and meta-analysis of factors associated with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
colonization at time of hospital or intensive care unit admission. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 
2013;34:1077–1086.
463. Davis MF , Iverson SA, Baron P , et  a l. Household 
transmission of meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  
and other staphylococci. Lancet Infect Dis . 
2012;12:703–716.
464. Fatkenheuer G, Hirschel B, Harbarth S. Screening and 
isolation to control meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus : sense, nonsense, and evidence. Lancet . 2015;385: 
1146–1149.465. Kock R, Becker K, Cookson B, et  a l. Systematic literature 
analysis and review of targeted preventive measures to limit healthcare-associated infections by meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . Euro Surveill . 2014;19.
466. Robotham JV , Deeny SR, Fuller C, et  a l. Cost-
effectiveness of national mandatory screening of all admissions to English National Health Service hospitals for meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : a 
mathematical modelling study. Lancet Infect Dis . 
2016;16:348–356.
467. Loeb M, Main C, Walker-Dilks C, et  a l. Antimicrobial 
drugs for treating methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  colonization. Cochrane Database Syst Rev . 
2003;(4):CD003340.
468. Ammerlaan HS, Kluytmans JA, Berkhout H, et  a l. 
Eradication of carriage with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus : effectiveness of a national 
guideline. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2011;66:2409– 
2417.
469. Albrich WC, Harbarth S. Health-care workers: source, 
vector, or victim of MRSA? Lancet Infect Dis . 
2008;8:289–301.
470. Climo MW , Y okoe DS, Warren DK, et  a l. Effect of daily 
chlorhexidine bathing on hospital-acquired infection.  
N Engl J Med . 2013;368:533–542.
471. Timsit JF , Mimoz O, Mourvillier B, et  a l. Randomized 
controlled trial of chlorhexidine dressing and highly adhesive dressing for preventing catheter-related infections in critically ill adults. Am J Respir Crit Care 
Med . 2012;186:1272–1278.
472. Timsit JF , Schwebel C, Bouadma L, et  a l. Chlorhexidine-
impregnated sponges and less frequent dressing changes for prevention of catheter-related infections in critically ill adults: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 
2009;301:1231–1241.
473. Derde LPG, Cooper BS, Goossens H, et  a l. Interventions 
to reduce colonisation and transmission of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria in intensive care units: an interrupted time series study and cluster randomised trial. Lancet 
Infect Dis . 2014;14:31–39.
474. Huang SS, Septimus E, Kleinman K, et  a l. Targeted versus 
universal decolonization to prevent ICU infection. N Engl 
J Med . 2013;368:2255–2265.
475. Bowen AC, Tong SY , Chatfield MD, et  a l. The 
microbiology of impetigo in indigenous children: associations between Streptococcus pyogenes, 
Staphylococcus aureus , scabies, and nasal carriage. BMC 
Infect Dis . 2014;14:727.
476. Lee IW , Kang L, Hsu HP , et  a l. Puerperal mastitis 
requiring hospitalization during a nine-year period. Am J 
Obstet Gynecol . 2010;203:332, e331–e336.
477. Fernandez L, Cardenas N, Arroyo R, et  a l. Prevention of 
infectious mastitis by oral administration of Lactobacillus salivarius PS2 during late pregnancy. Clin Infect Dis. 
2016;62:568–573.
478. Arroyo R, Martin V , Maldonado A, et  a l. Treatment of 
infectious mastitis during lactation: antibiotics versus oral administration of Lactobacilli isolated from breast milk. Clin Infect Dis. 2010;50:1551–1558.
479. Anderson DJ, Podgorny K, Berrios-Torres SI, et  a l. 
Strategies to prevent surgical site infections in acute care hospitals: 2014 update. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol . 
2014;35:605–627.
480. Allegranzi B, Bischoff P , de Jonge S, et  a l. New WHO 
recommendations on preoperative measures for surgical site infection prevention: an evidence-based global perspective. Lancet Infect Dis . 2016;16:e276–e287.
481. McClain SL, Bohan JG, Stevens DL. Advances in the 
medical management of skin and soft tissue infections. BMJ. 2016;355:i6004.
482. Eggimann P , Sax H, Pittet D. Catheter-related infections. 
Microbes Infect . 2004;6:1033–1042.
483. McGowan JE Jr, Barnes MW , Finland M. Bacteremia at 
Boston City Hospital: occurrence and mortality during 12 selected years (1935-1972), with special reference to hospital-acquired cases. J Infect Dis . 1975;132:316–335.
484. Rodríguez-Créixems M, Alcalá L, Muñoz P , et  a l. 
Bloodstream infections: evolution and trends in the microbiology workload, incidence, and etiology, 1985-2006. Medicine (Baltimore). 2008;87:234–249.
485. Laupland KB, Lyytikainen O, Sogaard M, et  a l. The 
changing epidemiology of Staphylococcus aureus  
bloodstream infection: a multinational population-based surveillance study. Clin Microbiol Infect . 2013;19:465–471.
486. Tong SY , Davis JS, Eichenberger E, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus  infections: epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical 
manifestations, and management. Clin Microbiol Rev. 
2015;28:603–661.
487. Moreillon P , Que YA. Infective endocarditis. Lancet . 
2004;363:139–149.
488. Gouello JP , Asfar P , Brenet O, et  a l. Nosocomial 
endocarditis in the intensive care unit: an analysis of 22 cases. Crit Care Med . 2000;28:377–382.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Chapter 194  Staphylococcus aureus  (Including Staphylococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome)
2431.e9
489. Habib G, Lancellotti P , Antunes MJ, et  a l. 2015 ESC 
Guidelines for the management of infective endocarditis: 
the Task Force for the Management of Infective Endocarditis of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Endorsed by: European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS), the European Association of Nuclear Medicine (EANM). Eur Heart J . 
2015;36:3075–3128.
490. Holland TL, Arnold C, Fowler VG Jr. Clinical 
management of Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia: a 
review. JAMA. 2014;312:1330–1341.
491. Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, et  a l. Infective 
endocarditis in adults: diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and management of complications: a scientific statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. Circulation . 2015;132:1435–1486.
492. Fowler VG Jr, Olsen MK, Corey GR, et  a l. Clinical 
identifiers of complicated Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteremia. Arch Intern Med . 2003;163:2066–2072.
493. Mermel LA, Allon M, Bouza E, et  a l. Clinical practice 
guidelines for the diagnosis and management of intravascular catheter-related infection: 2009 Update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2009;49:1–45.
494. Cosgrove SE, Fowler VG Jr. Management of methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia. Clin Infect 
Dis. 2008;46 Suppl 5:S386–S393.
495. Daneman N, Shore K, Pinto R, et  a l. Antibiotic treatment 
duration for bloodstream infections in critically ill patients: a national survey of Canadian infectious diseases and critical care specialists. Int J Antimicrob 
Agents. 2011;38:480–485.
496. Duval X, Delahaye F , Alla F , et  a l. Temporal trends in 
infective endocarditis in the context of prophylaxis guideline modifications: three successive population-based surveys. J Am Coll Cardiol . 2012;59:1968–1976.
497. Wang A, Athan E, Pappas PA, et  a l. Contemporary 
clinical profile and outcome of prosthetic valve endocarditis. JAMA. 2007;297:1354–1361.
498. Kamalakannan D, Pai RM, Johnson LB, et  a l. 
Epidemiology and clinical outcomes of infective endocarditis in hemodialysis patients. Ann Thorac Surg . 
2007;83:2081–2086.
499. Benito N, Miro JM, de Lazzari E, et  a l. Health 
care-associated native valve endocarditis: importance of non-nosocomial acquisition. Ann Intern Med. 
2009;150:586–594.
500. Murdoch DR, Corey GR, Hoen B, et  a l. Clinical 
presentation, etiology, and outcome of infective endocarditis in the 21st century: the International Collaboration on Endocarditis-Prospective Cohort Study. Arch Intern Med. 2009;169:463–473.
501. Moreillon P , Que YA, Bayer AS. Pathogenesis of 
streptococcal and staphylococcal endocarditis. Infect Dis 
Clin North Am. 2002;16:297–318.
502. Que YA, Haefliger JA, Francioli P , et  a l. Expression of 
Staphylococcus aureus  clumping factor A in Lactococcus 
lactis  subsp. cremoris using a new shuttle vector. Infect 
Immun . 2000;68:3516–3522.
503. Que YA, Francois P , Haefliger JA, et  a l. Reassessing the 
role of Staphylococcus aureus  clumping factor and 
fibronectin-binding protein by expression in Lactococcus 
lactis . Infect Immun . 2001;69:6296–6302.
504. Foster TJ, Geoghegan JA, Ganesh VK, et  a l. Adhesion, 
invasion and evasion: the many functions of the surface proteins of Staphylococcus aureus . Nat Rev Microbiol. 
2014;12:49–62.
505. Josse J, Laurent F , Diot A. Staphylococcal adhesion and 
host cell invasion: fibronectin-binding and other mechanisms. Front Microbiol . 2017;8:2433.
506. Y eaman MR. Platelets: at the nexus of antimicrobial 
defence. Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014;12:426–437.
507. Andersson DI, Hughes D, Kubicek-Sutherland JZ. 
Mechanisms and consequences of bacterial resistance to antimicrobial peptides. Drug Resist Updat . 2016;26:43–57.
508. Fowler VG, McIntyre LM, Y eaman MR, et  a l. In vitro 
resistance to thrombin-induced platelet microbicidal protein in isolates of Staphylococcus aureus  from 
endocarditis patients correlates with an intravascular device source. J Infect Dis . 2000;182:1251–1254.
509. Anaya-Lopez JL, Lopez-Meza JE, Ochoa-Zarzosa A. 
Bacterial resistance to cationic antimicrobial peptides. Crit Rev Microbiol . 2013;39:180–195.
510. Veloso TR, Chaouch A, Roger T, et  a l. Use of a 
human-like low-grade bacteremia model of experimental endocarditis to study the role of Staphylococcus aureus  
adhesins and platelet aggregation in early endocarditis. Infect Immun . 2013;81:697–703.
511. Habib A, Irfan M, Baddour LM, et  a l. Impact of prior 
aspirin therapy on clinical manifestations of cardiovascular implantable electronic device infections. Europace . 2013;15:227–235.512. Chan KL, Tam J, Dumesnil JG, et  a l. Effect of long-term 
aspirin use on embolic events in infective endocarditis. Clin Infect Dis. 2008;46:37–41.
513. Snygg-Martin U, Rasmussen RV , Hassager C, et  a l. The 
relationship between cerebrovascular complications and previously established use of antiplatelet therapy in left-sided infective endocarditis. Scand J Infect Dis . 
2011;43:899–904.
514. Kupferwasser LI, Y eaman MR, Shapiro SM, et  a l. 
Acetylsalicylic acid reduces vegetation bacterial density, hematogenous bacterial dissemination, and frequency of embolic events in experimental Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis through antiplatelet and antibacterial effects. Circulation . 1999;99:2791–2797.
515. Chan KL, Dumesnil JG, Cujec B, et  a l. A randomized 
trial of aspirin on the risk of embolic events in patients with infective endocarditis. J Am Coll Cardiol . 
2003;42:775–780.
516. Tornos P , Almirante B, Mirabet S, et  a l. Infective 
endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus : deleterious 
effect of anticoagulant therapy. Arch Intern Med. 
1999;159:473–475.
517. Garcia-Cabrera E, Fernandez-Hidalgo N, Almirante B, 
et al. Neurological complications of infective endocarditis: 
risk factors, outcome, and impact of cardiac surgery: a multicenter observational study. Circulation . 
2013;127:2272–2284.
518.
 Dickerman S, Abrutyn E, Barsic B, et  a l. The relationship 
between the initiation of antimicrobial therapy and the incidence of stroke in infective endocarditis: an analysis from the ICE Prospective Cohort Study (ICE-PCS). Am 
Heart J . 2007;154:1086–1094.
519. Thuny F , Di Salvo G, Belliard O, et  a l. Risk of embolism 
and death in infective endocarditis: prognostic value of echocardiography: a prospective multicenter study. Circulation . 2005;112:69–75.
520. Sonneville R, Mirabel M, Hajage D, et  a l. Neurologic 
complications and outcomes of infective endocarditis in critically ill patients: the ENDOcardite en REAnimation prospective multicenter study. Crit Care Med . 
2011;39:1474–1481.
521. Duval X, Iung B, Klein I, et  a l. Effect of early cerebral 
magnetic resonance imaging on clinical decisions in infective endocarditis: a prospective study. Ann Intern 
Med . 2010;152:497–504, W175.
522. Thuny F , Grisoli D, Collart F , et  a l. Management of 
infective endocarditis: challenges and perspectives. Lancet . 2012;379:965–975.
523. Sousa C, Botelho C, Rodrigues D, et  a l. Infective 
endocarditis in intravenous drug abusers: an update. Eur 
J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis . 2012;31:2905–2910.
524. Miro JM, Moreno A, Mestres CA. Infective endocarditis 
in intravenous drug abusers. Curr Infect Dis Rep . 
2003;5:307–316.
525. Ribera E, Gomez-Jimenez J, Cortes E, et  a l. Effectiveness 
of cloxacillin with and without gentamicin in short-term therapy for right-sided Staphylococcus aureus  
endocarditis. A randomized, controlled trial. Ann Intern 
Med . 1996;125:969–974.
526. Heldman AW , Hartert TV , Ray SC, et  a l. Oral antibiotic 
treatment of right-sided staphylococcal endocarditis in injection drug users: prospective randomized comparison with parenteral therapy. Am J Med . 1996;101:68–76.
527. Al-Omari A, Cameron DW , Lee C, et  a l. Oral antibiotic 
therapy for the treatment of infective endocarditis: a systematic review. BMC Infect Dis. 2014;14:140.
528. Dzupova O, Rozsypal H, Prochazka B, et  a l. Acute 
bacterial meningitis in adults: predictors of outcome. Scand J Infect Dis . 2009;41:348–354.
529. Aguilar J, Urday-Cornejo V , Donabedian S, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  meningitis: case series and 
literature review. Medicine (Baltimore). 2010;89:117–125.
530. Pintado V , Meseguer MA, Fortun J, et  a l. Clinical study of 
44 cases of Staphylococcus aureus  meningitis. Eur J Clin 
Microbiol Infect Dis . 2002;21:864–868.
531. Pedersen M, Benfield TL, Skinhoej P , et  a l. 
Haematogenous Staphylococcus aureus  meningitis. A 
10-year nationwide study of 96 consecutive cases. BMC 
Infect Dis . 2006;6:49.
532. Pintado V , Pazos R, Jimenez-Mejias ME, et  a l. 
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  meningitis in 
adults: a multicenter study of 86 cases. Medicine 
(Baltimore). 2012;91:10–17.
533. Grewal S, Hocking G, Wildsmith JA. Epidural abscesses. 
Br J Anaesth . 2006;96:292–302.
534. Self WH, Wunderink RG, Williams DJ, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  community-acquired pneumonia: 
prevalence, clinical characteristics, and outcomes. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2016;63:300–309.
535. Jain S, Self WH, Wunderink RG, et  a l. Community-
acquired pneumonia requiring hospitalization among U.S. adults. N Engl J Med . 2015;373:415–427.536. Aliberti S, Reyes LF , Faverio P , et  a l. Global initiative for 
meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  pneumonia 
(GLIMP): an international, observational cohort study. Lancet Infect Dis . 2016;16:1364–1376.
537. Gillet Y , Vanhems P , Lina G, et  a l. Factors predicting 
mortality in necrotizing community-acquired pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus  containing Panton-
Valentine leukocidin. Clin Infect Dis. 2007;45:315– 
321.
538. Meyer CN, Rosenlund S, Nielsen J, et  a l. Bacteriological 
aetiology and antimicrobial treatment of pleural empyema. Scand J Infect Dis . 2011;43:165–169.
539. Mandell LA, Wunderink RG, Anzueto A, et  a l. Infectious 
Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society consensus guidelines on the management of community-acquired pneumonia in adults. Clin Infect Dis. 2007;44 
Suppl 2:S27–S72.
540. Liu C, Bayer A, Cosgrove SE, et  a l. Clinical practice 
guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America for the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  infections in adults and children. Clin Infect Dis. 
2011;52:e18–e55.
541. Davis JS. Management of bone and joint infections due to 
Staphylococcus aureus . Intern Med J. 2005;35 Suppl 
2:S79–S96.
542. Kremers HM, Nwojo ME, Ransom JE, et  a l. Trends in  
the epidemiology of osteomyelitis: a population-based study, 1969 to 2009. J Bone Joint Surg Am . 2015;97: 
837–845.
543. Murillo O, Grau I, Lora-Tamayo J, et  a l. The changing 
epidemiology of bacteraemic osteoarticular infections in the early 21st century. Clin Microbiol Infect . 2015;21:254, 
e251–e258.
544. Zimmerli W . Clinical practice. Vertebral osteomyelitis.  
N Engl J Med . 2010;362:1022–1029.
545. White M, Dennison WM. Acute heamatogeneous osteitis 
in childhood: a review of 212 cases. J Bone Joint Surg Br . 
1952;34-B:608–623.
546. Grammatico-Guillon L, Baron S, Gettner S, et  a l. Bone 
and joint infections in hospitalized patients in France, 2008: clinical and economic outcomes. J Hosp Infect . 
2012;82:40–48.
547. Blyth MJ, Kincaid R, Craigen MA, et  a l. The changing 
epidemiology of acute and subacute haematogenous osteomyelitis in children. J Bone Joint Surg Br . 
2001;83:99–102.
548. Dartnell J, Ramachandran M, Katchburian M. 
Haematogenous acute and subacute paediatric osteomyelitis: a systematic review of the literature. J Bone 
Joint Surg Br . 2012;94:584–595.
549.
 Lew DP , Waldvogel FA. Osteomyelitis. Lancet . 
2004;364:369–379.
550. Peschel A, Otto M. Phenol-soluble modulins and 
staphylococcal infection. Nat Rev Microbiol. 
2013;11:667–673.
551. Loughran AJ, Gaddy D, Beenken KE, et  a l. Impact of 
sarA and Phenol-Soluble Modulins on the Pathogenesis of Osteomyelitis in Diverse Clinical Isolates of Staphylococcus aureus . Infect Immun . 2016;84:2586– 
2594.
552. Cassat JE, Hammer ND, Campbell JP , et  a l. A secreted 
bacterial protease tailors the Staphylococcus aureus  
virulence repertoire to modulate bone remodeling during osteomyelitis. Cell Host Microbe. 2013;13:759–772.
553. Butalia S, Palda V A, Sargeant RJ, et  a l. Does this patient 
with diabetes have osteomyelitis of the lower extremity? JAMA. 2008;299:806–813.
554. Proctor RA, Kriegeskorte A, Kahl BC, et  a l. 
Staphylococcus aureus  Small Colony Variants (SCVs): a 
road map for the metabolic pathways involved in persistent infections. Front Cell Infect Microbiol . 
2014;4:99.
555. Peltola H, Paakkonen M, Kallio P , et  a l; Osteomyelitis-
Septic Arthritis Study G. Short- versus long-term antimicrobial treatment for acute hematogenous osteomyelitis of childhood: prospective, randomized trial on 131 culture-positive cases. Pediatr Infect Dis J . 
2010;29:1123–1128.
556. Guglielmo BJ, Luber AD, Paletta D Jr, et  a l. Ceftriaxone 
therapy for staphylococcal osteomyelitis: a review. Clin 
Infect Dis . 2000;30:205–207.
557. Tice AD, Hoaglund PA, Shoultz DA. Risk factors and 
treatment outcomes in osteomyelitis. J Antimicrob 
Chemother . 2003;51:1261–1268.
558. Berbari EF , Kanj SS, Kowalski TJ, et  a l. 2015 Infectious 
Diseases Society of America (IDSA) clinical practice guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of native vertebral osteomyelitis in adults. Clin Infect Dis. 
2015;61:e26–e46.
559. Russell CD, Ramaesh R, Kalima P , et  a l. Microbiological 
characteristics of acute osteoarticular infections in children. J Med Microbiol. 2015;64(Pt 4):446–453.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.2431.e10
Part III  Infectious Diseases and Their Etiologic Agents560. Geirsson AJ, Statkevicius S, Vikingsson A. Septic arthritis 
in Iceland 1990-2002: increasing incidence due to 
iatrogenic infections. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008;67:638–643.
561. Lieber SB, Fowler ML, Zhu C, et  a l. Clinical 
characteristics and outcomes of septic bursitis. Infection . 
2017;45:781–786.
562. Trampuz A, Zimmerli W . Prosthetic joint infections: 
update in diagnosis and treatment. Swiss Med Wkly . 
2005;135:243–251.563. Sendi P , Banderet F , Graber P , et  a l. Periprosthetic joint 
infection following Staphylococcus aureus  bacteremia.  
J Infect . 2011;63:17–22.
564. Lalueza A, Morales-Cartagena A, Chaves F , et  a l. Risk 
factors for metastatic osteoarticular infections after a long follow-up of patients with Staphylococcus aureus  
bacteraemia. Clin Microbiol Infect . 2015;21:1010, 
e1011–e1015.565.
 Zimmerli W , Trampuz A, Ochsner PE. Prosthetic-joint 
infections. N Engl J Med . 2004;351:1645–1654.
566. Bickels J, Ben-Sira L, Kessler A, et  a l. Primary 
pyomyositis. J Bone Joint Surg Am . 2002;84-A:2277– 
2286.
567. Garcia C, Hallin M, Deplano A, et  a l. Staphylococcus 
aureus  causing tropical pyomyositis, Amazon Basin, Peru. 
Emerg Infect Dis. 2013;19:123–125.
Downloaded for Sanjat Kanjilal (skanjilal@bwh.harvard.edu) at Harvard University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on August 
23, 2022. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2022. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.